---
name: "COMMUNITY MALE EMPOWERMENT PROJECT"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- rehabilitation
- arts
ein: 010625121
homepage: "N/A"
address: |
 PO Box 12758, \nChicago, IL 60612
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.71329
lat: 41.86517
description: "Cmep had the opportunity to work on the city of chicago troubled building initiative and receivership program. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To restore vacant and abandoned buildings to stabilize neighborhoods. During 2014 cmep successfully completed the application process with the city of chicago, troubled building initiative and receivership program. Under this program cmep was able to relieve chicago of some of its troubled buildings. Cmep was again able to provide contract and job opportunities to sub-contractors and community residents by rehabbing vacant and foreclosed properties. Local suppliers were supported and community residents received on the job construction training. Cmep's relationships with public and private entities allow the organization to help families make the transition from substandard rental housing to affordable home-ownership. This re-vitalizes older low-income neighborhoods and encourages families who live, work and play in the community to engage in re-building the neighborhood block-by block. The inclusion of community residents improves the quality of life and safety in the community and the wider city of chicago. One of cmep's public relationships is with the national community stabilization trust. Its mission is to facilitate the transfer of bank-owned reo and foreclosed properties to local housing providers to stabilize neighborhoods. During 2014, no properties were received from the trust, however cmep looks forward to continuing to work with the trust in the acquisition and disposition of properties in the revitalization of our neighborhoods. Such relationships help cmep take positive and meaningful steps to assist in both local and nationwide issues. As always. Cmep strives to uphold the values of revitalization, re-education, stabilization, inclusion, diversity and opportunity. 
