---
name: "Alzheimer's Disease & Related Disorders Association Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133039601
homepage: "www.alz.org"
address: |
 225 N Michigan Ave 17th Floor, \nChicago, IL 606017633
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62452
lat: 41.886063
description: "Eliminate alzheimer's disease through the advancement of research, provide & enhance care & support for all aff- ected & reduce the risk of dementia through promotion of brain health. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The alzheimer's association is the leading voluntary health organization in alzheimer care, support, and research. The mission of the alzheimer's association is to eliminate alzheimer's disease through the advancement of research; to provide and enhance care and support for all affected; and to reduce the risk of dementia through the promotion of brain health. The vision of the alzheimer's association is a world without alzheimer's. The alzheimer's association is a valued resource for caregivers and those living with the disease, offering information, education and support. The alzheimer's association has 81 chapters working together to accomplish the mission. The national organization is headquartered in chicago, and has a public policy office in washington, d. C. The alzheimer's association provides 24/7 constituent support through a helpline 365 days a year (1. 800. 272. 3900) and our web site, alz. Org. As the leading voluntary health organization in care, support and research, since aw
  
  public awareness and education - alzheimer's is a progressive, degenerative and ultimately fatal disease. Too few americans understand the current and future economic impact of alzheimer's. Already more than 5 million americans are living with alzheimer's and as many as 15 million people are providing unpaid care and support. And this massive group is in need of information and resources. The alzheimer's association has invested in education campaigns and initiatives to increase knowledge about alzheimer's disease and awareness of the alzheimer's association as the center of help and hope. Key messages include the importance of early detection, resources for people with alzheimer's and their families, and the societal impact of the disease. Millions of constituents participated in programs in our local communities and on-line. Expenses: $40,511,797 grants: none revenues: none
