---
name: "World Bicycle Relief NFP"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 205080679
homepage: "www.worldbicyclerelief.org"
address: |
 1000 West Fulton Market, \nChicago, IL 60607
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.65227
lat: 41.88674
description: "Transforming individuals and their communities through the power of bicycles. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

World bicycle relief (the corporation) is organized and operated exclusively for charitable and educational purposes in accord with sec. 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (or a corresponding provision of any future united states internal revenue law, referred to below as the 'code'). More specifically, world bicycle relief is organized to help people in disaster-stricken or impoverished areas of the world to achieve independence and a means to obtain a livelihood by providing them with access to low- or no-cost bicycles. In mid-2009, wbr launched an education focused initiative called the bicycles for educational empowerment program (beep), which is designed to improve education outcomes for rural students in sub-saharan africa. The program uses the power of bicycles to help improve school attendance and academic performance; bicycle recipients are chosen based on distance to school, with preference given to students in need, particularly female students. Initial results from the program show grades and attendance increasing while child pregnancy and other health risks such as hiv/aids rates are decreasing. Bicycle supervisory committees select those students most in need and then oversee their bicycle usage. Every recipient receives basic training about bicycle maintenance and safety, and signs a contract of commitment when receiving his or her bike. In 2014, wbr distributed about 8,817 bicycles into the program in zambia, 5,602 into zimbabwe, 8,840 into south africa, and 1,100 into kenya. Wbr also initiated a program in peru and colombia. 
