---
name: "American Brain Tumor Association"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 237286648
homepage: "WWW.ABTA.ORG"
address: |
 8550 W Bryn Mawr Ave Suite 550, \nChicago, IL 60631
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.84099
lat: 41.981033
description: "See attachment 1"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Mission statement the mission of the american brain tumor association is to advance the understanding and treatment of brain tumors with the goals of improving, extending and, ultimately, saving the lives of those impacted by a brain tumor diagnosis. We do this through interactions and engagement with brain tumor patients and their families; collaborations with allied groups and organizations; and the funding of brain tumor research. Impact statement founded in 1973, the american brain tumor association was the first and is now the only national nonprofit organization dedicated to funding brain tumor research into diagnostics, treatment and care. As well as, providing comprehensive resources to brain tumor patients, caregivers and to the health/medical community. Program service i: medical and scientific research grants the abta's historical support of early-career investigators working to improve brain tumor diagnostics and treatment has contributed to populating the modern brain tumor research and scientific community. Many of the scientists we have supported have gone on to mentor new researchers in the field and have become leaders of some of the nation's most prestigious brain tumor centers. In addition to supporting early-career investigators, the abta funds discovery science which encourages the development of new approaches to the diagnosis and treatment of brain tumors. These awards allow researchers to conduct the novel early scientific studies needed to secure additional funding for their projects. Interest in these new concepts has been shown by the nih and venture capitalists, who have provided additional funding at significantly higher levels than the abta's grants. The development of new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches advances the understanding and treatment of brain tumors, and increases the potential for improving, extending and ultimately saving the lives of those living with a brain tumor diagnosis. An independent, multi-level, external review process ensures that abta grants are awarded for the most meritorious research projects. Our prestigious scientific advisory council and grant reviewers are leaders in the brain tumor community. Many were themselves recipients of abta funding earlier in their careers. We also collaborate with other research funders, both in and out of the brain tumor field, to expand the understanding of this disease. We support research that will improve the quality of life of brain tumor survivors and their caregivers. The abta alumni research network ensures research collaborations into the future. Through this forum, previously funded abta grantees are encouraged to share ideas and gain insights that will shape their careers and the brain tumor landscape. The american brain tumor association's research funding program supports career development and innovative research through the following grant mechanisms: - basic research fellowships $100,000 two-year grants for postdoctoral fellows embarking on careers dedicated to brain tumor research. Through these awards and under the guidance of a mentor, the abta is ensuring a diverse pool of highly trained brain tumor scientists will emerge as the next generation of leaders in the field. An abta basic research fellowship is highly regarded, and often the first, grant of a postdoctoral fellow's career. To date, we have helped retain over 250 researchers in this field, via abta basic research fellowships. Many transitioned into leaders of brain tumor research laboratories and treatment programs, and now serve as mentors to new scientists entering the field. - medical student summer fellowships $3,000 summer stipend grants allowing medical students to spend a summer conducting brain tumor research. These grants aim to expand the nation's pool of physician-scientists in the brain tumor research field. These summer fellowships are one of the most exciting areas for the abta to fund as they are so meaningful to these enthusiastic students embarking on their careers. This unique opportunity gives the grantees the ability to focus on a research project full-time and determine how they can incorporate brain tumor research into their developing careers. It also provides them with valuable research lab skills that could lead to scientific breakthroughs. Through this experience, the students are exposed to and learn from the research challenges confronting this disease. - discovery grants one-year, $50,000 grants that fund high risk/high impact projects with the potential to change current diagnostic or treatment paradigms for adults and children with brain tumors. These grants specifically encourage novel research at its earliest stages, in the hopes that it spurs additional funding in the future. Discovery grants, while considered the most 'high risk/high impact' of our funding areas, carry the highest opportunity for reward and innovation. To date, 47 of these grants have been awarded. Concepts supported through this funding must be capable of changing the way brain tumors are diagnosed or treated. Funding has been provided for a variety of focus areas including immunotherapy, new biomarkers, nanoparticles and stem cell research. Abta discovery grant funding recently aided the development of two new brain tumor drugs that target malignant gliomas such as glioblastoma multiforme (gbm)-a common and aggressive type of malignant brain tumor. Supports collaborative funding opportunities: - collaborative initiatives these efforts support jointly sponsored feasibility, clinical research, and quality of life studies. These grants provide support for projects that are more effectively performed in partnership with multiple organizations or funders. Most recently, abta collaboratively awarded a $2 million, two year study that seeks to better understand the characteristics of long term survivors of glioblastoma. The research seeks to identify commonalities and unique differences among a group of 5 year + survivors of this often fatal disease. 
