---
name: "Easter Seals Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- elderly
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- poverty
ein: 261207337
homepage: "N/A"
address: |
 233 South Wacker Drive No 2400, \nChicago, IL 606066410
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.636665
lat: 41.878517
description: "Easter seals foundation provides easter seals and certain entities affiliated with easter seals funds to create life-changing solutions so that children and adults with disabilities or other special needs can live, work and play in their communities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Easter seals foundation provides easter seals and certain entities affiliated with easter seals funds to create life-changing solutions so that children and adults with disabilities or special needs and their families can live, learn, work, and play in their communities. Easter seals foundation provides awards to easter seals inc. To carry out its mission of creating life-changing solutions so that children and adults with disabilities or special needs and their families can live, learn, work and play in their communities. The easter seals foundation provides easter seals inc. And certain entities affiliated with easter seals with funds to meet four objectives: 1) to deliver and maintain high quality services which meet the needs of children and adults with disabilities or other special needs and their families. 2) to empower children and adults with disabilities or other special needs and their families to find and make effective use of resources which support them in developing their abilities and living purposeful lives. 3) to assist local, domestic and international communities in the development and implementation of necessary and appropriate services for children and adults with disabilities or other special needs and their families. 4) to support the integration of children and adults with disabilities or other special needs and their families into the mainstream of community life. 
