---
name: "Advance Illinois NFP"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 262052733
homepage: "www.advanceillinois.org"
address: |
 50 East Washington Street, \nChicago, IL 60602
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62562
lat: 41.88323
description: "Advance illinois was founded to be an objective voice in supporting a healthy public education system that prepares all students for college, career, and democratic citizenship. Advance illinois is guided by the conclusion that driving significant improvement in education outcomes requires a comprehensive approach over many years. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Mission: advance illinois was founded to be an objective voice in supporting a healthy public education system that prepares all students for college, career, and democratic citizenship. Advance illinois is guided by the conclusion that driving significant improvement in education outcomes requires a comprehensive approach over many years. Specifically: (1) significant progress improving student outcomes takes many years to achieve. While student performance can improve immediately following education policy changes, the systemic nature of reform means it generally takes states one to two decades to achieve meaningful growth in outcomes, with more progress left to be done . (2) a student-centric reform agenda is a necessary foundation for improvement. Policies that prioritize students and focus on key levers, such as quality early education, high standards and rigorous curriculums, school accountability, and talented educators, are essential in laying the groundwork for continuous
  
  policy outreach & community engagement: advance illinois actively engages with educators, business and community leaders, students and families, and policymakers to push for meaningful action to strengthen public education and improve student performance. Advance illinois works with local and national organizations; education researchers; the state's education agencies (illinois state board of education, illinois board of higher education, and the illinois community college board); the state's executive branch; the state's p-20 council; the state's general assembly and various legislative work groups. Advance illinois conducts outreach with community groups, education stakeholder groups (e. G. Teacher unions and school management groups), the media, and the general public. Advance illinois shapes and promotes a thoughtfully-researched education policy framework that begins with the objective to expand access to high quality early childhood education and support students to post-secondary success. From birth to career, advance illinois envisions a healthy education system to supports five interconnected goals: (1) create rigorous learning environments with high expectations; (2) hire, develop and retain the great teachers and leaders; (3) give schools the resources they need; (4) engage families and provide necessary student supports; and (5) promote continuous improvement and innovation. 
