---
name: "Alliance for Water Efficiency NFP"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 300416781
homepage: "www.allianceforwaterefficiency.org"
address: |
 33 North LaSalle Street, \nChicago, IL 60602
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.63238
lat: 41.88266
description: "Alliance for water efficiency is dedicated to promoting the efficient and sustainable use of water. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Alliance for water efficiency is dedicated to promoting the efficient and sustainable use of water. 2015 was the eighth year for the alliance for water efficiency (awe), and progress was made on a number of important projects and initiatives. Highlights of its work are:1. Numerous projects funded through grants and membership contributions were completed in 2015. These completed projects included:a. Published in january, 2015 a report entitled water offset policies for water-neutral community growth, an in-depth review of communities that currently have a water demand offset policy or water neutral growth policy in place. This formed the basis for a successful grant proposal for the net blue project, a project to develop a national template ordinance for planning and zoning to enable water-neutral development. The report is posted on awes website www. A4we. Org. B. Published in january, 2015 a report on outdoor water savings research initiative, documenting the results of the available research to date on landscape conservation programs and identifying needed areas of new research which will be launched in 2016. A webinar was also held on the report. C. Published in july, 2015 a report entitled an assessment of increasing water use efficiency on demand hardening evaluated the effects of water conservation in drought, and is posted on awes website www. A4we. Org. A webinar was also held on the report. D. Produced a set of consumer messages on rates and launched a blog on water efficient rates and revenue stability on awes financing sustainable water website: www. Financingsustainablewater. Orge. Produced and launched an animated video entitled water: what you pay for -- an educational resource on the value of the service that our nations water utilities provide to customers. The video provides a step-by-step explanation of how safe, reliable drinking water finds its way to consumers faucets. It is posted on both the www. A4we. Org and www. Financingsustainablewater. Org websites. F. Held 10 webinars during 2015 on numerous water efficiency topics, including automated metering infrastructure, drought tolerant landscaping, impact of codes and standards, and other topics. The webinars were attended by 1,650 people. G. Completed the customization of the home water works water calculator for two utilities, one in the us and one in canada. H. Conducted the international conference efficient2015, a conference on water efficiency sponsored by the international water association, which was held for the first time in the united states in cincinnati in april, 2015. Over 450 international participants attended and awe presented on numerous topics. I. Participated in over 36 workshops during 2015 to over 2,000 practitioners, presenting on a range of topics including drought management, water loss control, and rates. J. Fielded 95 technical assistance requests. This remains a core function of awe, and an important benefit and connection to the membership. 2. Work continued during 2015 on a number of other grant-funded projects that were not actually finished in 2015 but which will be completed in 2016 or later:a. Continued to work on rates and revenue stability issues in awes financing sustainable water project, funded by the walton family foundation. Work products were produced in 2014 and 2015 with the overall project finished in 2016. Www. Financingsustainablewater. Org. B. Announced three outdoor water savings research studies which will span a three-year period. The three study topics are: quantifying the water savings from landscape transformation programs; quantifying the water savings from drought outdoor watering restrictions; and examining the effects of smart meter controls on irrigation for peak reduction management. All studies will begin in early 2016. C. Worked with the plumbing efficiency research coalition on phase 2 of the study of plumbing drain line transport issues in commercial buildings. The study will be completed in 2016. D. Launched a project to research and design a commercial kitchen guide to water efficiency in partnership with the food service technology center. The guide will be published in 2016. E. Launched a project to analyze drought lessons from australia in partnership with the institute for sustainable futures in sydney and the pacific institute. The report will be published in 2016. F. Launched the net blue project with funding from the scherman foundation to develop a national template planning and zoning ordinance for water neutral development. The ordinance will be finished in 2016, and work with partner cities will be complete in 2017. G. Launched the great lakes water loss control project with funding from the mott foundation to audit two great lakes water utilities for non-revenue water and leakage. The audits and outreach workshop will be completed in 2016. 3. During 2015 awe developed a new version 3 of its popular water conservation tracking tool. This version of the tool, now undergoing beta testing, provides updated information and adds water loss control to the menu of programmable activities. Version 3 will be released in 2016. 4. During 2015 awe provided legislative updates for 10 pieces of proposed legislation in the us house of representatives and 14 pieces of proposed legislation in the us senate as an informational service to its members. These federal bills were proposed on the topics of sustainable water use and water and energy efficiency, and the alliance provided detailed information on these measures and their status on its online legislative watch page. 
