---
name: "Foundation of the American College of Healthcare Executives"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 360724325
homepage: "www.ache.org"
address: |
 One North Franklin Street No 1700, \nChicago, IL 60606
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Conduct research activities and provide continuing education opportunities through seminars, workshops, conferences, and publications. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of foundation of the american college of healthcare executives ('the foundation') is to produce educational programs and publications that further the healthcare executive community. Its educational offerings include the annual congress on healthcare leadership, which draws more than 4,000 participants each year. The foundation's publishing division, health administration press, is one of the largest publishers of books and journals on all aspects of health services management including textbooks for use in college and university courses. The division of research conducts research in multiple healthcare management areas, including career attainments of healthcare executives and trends affecting the profession. A philanthropic initiative of the foundation was created to bring innovation to the forefront of healthcare leadership. Through such efforts, the foundation works toward its goal of improving healthcare delivery. The foundation's seminars, conferences, and distant learning programs provide special opportunities for healthcare executives to learn from colleagues at national and regional events. The programs feature speakers who address a broad spectrum of healthcare management and executive leadership topics. 
