---
name: "American College of Surgeons"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 362192800
homepage: "www.facs.org"
address: |
 633 N Saint Clair Street, \nChicago, IL 60611
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62273
lat: 41.893898
description: "The primary exempt purpose is to improve the quality of care of the surgical patient through education and research. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american college of surgeons is dedicated to improving the care of the surgical patient and to safeguarding standards of care in an optimal and ethical practice environment. The mission of the acs division of research and optimal patient care (dropc) is to improve the quality of surgical care by enabling all surgeons to apply the best scientific evidence available in all aspects of their daily practice with respect, compassion, and dignity for all patients. The dropc promotes the practice of evidence-based surgery by developing new knowledge through basic and clinical research, the setting and verification of standards, development of best practices and guidelines, educational activities, and the collection and measurement of outcomes. The dropc is comprised of three focus areas: 1. Cancer - the commission on cancer (coc) is a consortium of professional organizations dedicated to improving survival and quality of life for cancer patients through standard-setting, prevention, research, education, and the monitoring of comprehensive quality care. The coc accreditation program sets standards for quality, multidisciplinary cancer care delivered in more than 1,400 hospital settings in the united states and puerto rico. Other coc programs include the cancer physician liaison program, the national accreditation program for breast centers, and the national cancer database. 2. Trauma - the committee on trauma (cot) and the trauma programs staff oversee and support various didactic and experiential trauma courses, the national trauma registry, the national trauma data bank, the verification/consultation program for hospitals, the trauma system consultation program, and regional trauma organization of state/provincial activities. The cot is also active in pre-hospital trauma care, injury prevention and control, performance improvement and patient safety, rural trauma, disaster management, and outcomes studies. 3. Continuous quality improvement (cqi) - the dropc's continuous quality improvement (qi) programs provide the infrastructure for several qi programs, as well as for conducting health services research, clinical research, laboratory research, meta-analyses, clinical trials, outcome studies, research hypothesis generation, and the development of evidence-based practice guidelines. The major qi programs within cqi include the acs national surgical quality improvement program (acs nsqip) and the ace bariatric surgical center network (acs bscn). 
