---
name: "Chicago Commons Association"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- social
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362169136
homepage: "www.chicagocommons.org"
address: |
 515 E 50th Street No 200, \nChicago, IL 60615
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Chicago commons association partners with individuals, families and communities to overcome poverty, discrimination and isolation. Chicago commons operates four core programs: early education, youth services, adult education and senior services. Chicago commons targets neighborhoods with the greatest needs, with a current focus on west humboldt park, pilsen, back of the yards and grand boulevard. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Chicago commons association partners with individuals, families and communities to overcome poverty, discrimination and isolation. Chicago commons operates four core programs: early education, youth services, adult education and senior services. Chicago commons targets neighborhoods with the greatest needs, with a current focus on west humboldt park, pilsen, back of the yards and grand boulevard. Early education: chicago commons operates four high quality early education centers and works with a dozen community partner sites to provide child care and education to more than 1,400 children in some of chicago's most distressed neighborhoods. Commons was one of the first preschools in the u. S. To use the reggio emilia approach to educating young children, and has garnered regional and national recognition for our approach, results, and adaptations of the method. The reggio emilia approach is an educational philosophy that views the preschool years as crucial to the development of children as individuals. The program is based on principles of respect, responsibility, and community, and empowers children to learn through self-directed discovery. Chicago commons tailors the reggio emilia approach to meet the needs of each child. We work from the recognition that every student has the potential to love learning and, ultimately, be academically successful. Commons' four, year-round early education centers provide quality early head start, head start, preschool for all, prevention initiative, and child care services for children from birth to 12 years. 
