---
name: "The Chicago Lighthouse for People Who Are Blind or Visually Impaired"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 362169139
homepage: "www.chicagolighthouse.org"
address: |
 1850 W Roosevelt Road, \nChicago, IL 60608
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.67295
lat: 41.866867
description: "The chicago lighthouse strives to provide quality educational, clinical, rehabilitation and vocational services to people who are blind, visually impaired, multi-disabled or veterans"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Established in 1906, the chicago lighthouse for people who are blind or visually impaired serves as a leader, innovator, and advocate. The chicago lighthouse, a nonprofit organization, opens doors to opportunities, choices, jobs, and independence for people of all ages who are blind, visually impaired, deaf-blind and multi-disabled and in furtherance of this objective, assists and employs people who are otherwise disabled and veterans. Call center operations include providing customer service jobs for contracts entered into with both private companies and state agencies, and the assessment and training programs to assist potential employees in gaining the skills necessary for employment in this area. The communications center provides training for individuals in the area of customer service, call center operations and appointment taking. Paid internships are available for those who are interested in this type of work, funded by a city of chicago grant. Other funders have supported these efforts, as well. As the lighthouse continues with four major contracts, 189 people with visual disabilities, as well as other disabilities and veterans, were provided training and/or jobs during the fiscal year. In fy 2015 expenses were $14,670,107 and revenues were $16,192,085. 
