---
name: "La Rabida Children's Hospital"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- technology
- arts
ein: 362170143
homepage: "www.larabida.org"
address: |
 6501 S Promontory Drive, \nChicago, IL 60649
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.572105
lat: 41.777573
description: "La rabida children's hospital provides specialized, family-centered health care to children with medically complex conditions, disabilities, and chronic illness. Through expertise, compassion, and advocacy we help children and their families reach their fullest potential, regardless of their ability to pay. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

La rabida children's hospital (lrch) provides specialized, family-centered health care to children with medically complex conditions, disabilities, and chronic illness. Through expertise, compassion, and advocacy we help children and their families reach their fullest potential, regardless of their ability to pay. The primary service provided by la rabida is inpatient services to children with chronic illnesses and disabilities. In fiscal year 2015 we had 446 admissions and 6,596 patient days of care. La rabida children's hospital serves these children regardless of race, creed, sex, national origin, or ability to pay and is the most medicaid dependent hospital in the state of illinois, with more than 92% of its patient days of care rendered for medicaid program beneficiaries. La rabida children's hospital is a local expert and provides a site of training for residents and medical students. We train nearly 95 physician residents and medical students each year from the university of chicago. La rabida is also a training site for nursing, rehabilitation therapists, social work, psychology and respiratory therapy students. The hospital works to ensure that all hospital staff, both clinical and non-clinical, receives education on how to make the hospital a safe place for children. This includes quality initiatives for infection control, certification classes in cpr and pediatric advanced life support (pals), running mock codes, classroom lectures for nurses, emergency preparedness training, and meetings on education and research. La rabida also holds in-services as warranted for new products, policies and event-related occurrences. 
