---
name: "Chicago Symphony Orchestra"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- nature
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 362167823
homepage: "www.cso.org"
address: |
 220 S Michigan Avenue, \nChicago, IL 606042559
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.624275
lat: 41.87923
description: "To present classical music to chicago, national and international audiences. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The central mission of the chicago symphony orchestra association is to present classical music through the chicago symphony orchestra to chicago, national and international audiences. The mission is supported by four mutually reinforcing elements:artistic excellence: continued international preeminence in the field of orchestral excellenceaudience development: leading audience development initiativeseducation: superior education and community programsfinancial stability: fiscal responsibility for long-term stability
  
  chicago symphony orchestra concerts -- during the 2014/15 season, the cso presented 153 concert programs for more than 369,000 patrons. Two commissions were included in the repertoire, both world premieres. The cso tour schedule included concerts in five foreign and two domestic cities. The free concert for chicago led by maestro muti at millennium park in downtown chicago drew more than 20,000 people. The cso began the season with concerts featuring beethoven's ninth symphony. A webcast of the concert was viewed online more than 353,000 times in more than 200 countries and provinces. The cso performed two concerts at the morton arboretum in dupage county drawing an audience of more than 8,500. Contracted by the ravinia festival association for an annual summer residency, the cso performed 21 concerts at ravinia park. 
