---
name: "Easter Seals Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362171729
homepage: "www.easterseals.com"
address: |
 233 South Wacker Drive No 2400, \nChicago, IL 606066410
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.636665
lat: 41.878517
description: "Headquarters only for this return. See schedule o. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Through therapy, training, education and support services, easter seals creates life-changing solutions so people with disabilities or special needs, and their families, can live, learn, work and play in their communities. Learn more at easterseals. Com. Easter seals senior community service employment program (scsep) is a work-based community service program for older workers, funded by the department of labor (dol). Authorized by the older american act, the program provides subsidized, service-based training for low-income persons 55 or older, who are unemployed with poor employment prospects. Scsep's mission is to promote economic self-sufficiency for older individuals seeking to achieve this goal. Program participants train at community nonprofits and government agencies, gaining skills to prepare them for employment. (see schedule o for additional program information)in addition, easter seals provides program participants training to help them become job-ready; this can include resume workshops, interview workshops, job search assistance, and other supports to become job-ready. The u. S. Department of labor employment and training administration (doleta) administers scsep by awarding grants to 15 non-profit organizations (including easter seals, inc. ) and to each of 56 state and territorial governments. Easter seals, a national scsep grantee since 2003 had nine affiliate organizations working as sub-recipients of scsep during its 2014 program year. During program year 2014, easter seals served (2,515) participants and successfully trained many participants who were 'most in need. ' participants included (266) people over age 70; (1074) homeless or at-risk of homelessness; (764) with a disability; (300) were veterans; (321) participants had limited english proficiency; (529) tested with low literacy skills; and (1080) had an advanced education ranging from one year of college to doctoral degrees. (372) participants exited during the year for paid employment, with an average starting wage of ($11. 02) per hour, made possible through their participation in the scsep. During this same period, easter seals scsep participants provided (1,081,214) million hours of community service hours to local not-for-profit and government agencies through their training assignments. These community service hours greatly benefit local communities in addition to training scsep participants. 
