---
name: "The Moody Bible Institute of Chicago"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 362167792
homepage: "www.moodyglobal.org"
address: |
 820 N LaSalle Blvd, \nChicago, IL 60610
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Moody bible institute is a higher education and media ministry that exists to equip people with the truth of god's word to be maturing followers of christ who are making disciples around the world. Moody is best known for its education branch, which includes a fully-accredited undergraduate school and seminary, as well as distance learning. Other primary ministries include moody radio and moody publishers. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Moody bible institute is a higher education and media ministry that exists to equip people with the truth of god's word to be maturing followers of christ who are making disciples around the world. Moody is best known for its education branch, which includes a fully-accredited undergraduate school and seminary, as well as distance learning. Other primary ministries include moody radio and moody publishers. Education:through our undergraduate and graduate schools, and the distance learning center resources, we educate and train individuals to proclaim the gospel of jesus christ, to promote evangelism and to serve the evangelical christian church vocationally and/or avocationally in its worldwide ministry. Number of students (2014-2015 school year): undergraduate school 3,234 graduate school 732fifty states and sixty-one countries are represented in the undergraduate and graduate school. International students are 11. 0% of the total. Undergraduate degrees (a. B. S. , b. A. , b. Mus. , b. S. Mat, and b. S. ) are offered in various majors including: bible, communications, educational ministries, sports ministry, missionary aviation and technology, pastoral studies, sacred music, theology, intercultural ministries, ministry leadership. Graduate degree programs include master of divinity (mdiv), master of arts in biblical studies (mabs), master of arts in intercultural studies/urban (mais/us), master of arts in spiritual formation/discipleship (masf/d), graduate certificate (gsc), master of arts in counseling psychology, master of theological studies, master of arts in pastoral ministry, master of arts in ministry leadership (maml), master of arts in applied biblical studies (maabs), master of arts in biblical and theological studies. Distance learning resources include on-line undergraduate and graduate courses, correspondence courses, extension classrooms, and am bible software. 
