---
name: "American Osteopathic Association"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 362170786
homepage: "www.osteopathic.org"
address: |
 142 East Ontario Street, \nChicago, IL 60611
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62356
lat: 41.893353
description: "The american osteopathic association (aoa) is a membership association representing more than 123,075 osteopathic physicians (dos) and osteopathic medical students. The aoa serves as the primary certifying board for dos, is the accrediting agency for osteopathic medical schools, and has federal authority to accredit hospitals and other health care facilities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The aoa's mission is to advance the distinctive philosophy and practice of osteopathic medicine. Department of education:the function of the aoa department of education is to promote excellence in osteopathic medicine through education. In tax year 2014, the aoa:division of certification-was responsible for the development of certification and continuous certification processes for over 28,000 osteopathic physician diplomates and for the development and implementation of the new osteopathic continuous certification (occ) process for each of the 18 specialty certifying boards and their subspecialty certifications. -awarded 1,896 new general certifications, 219 new certifications of added qualifications, 61 new certifications of special qualifications, and 2,001 re-certifications to osteopathic physicians. Division of educational resource services-monitored and recorded the progress of 8,626 trainees in 1,205 residency training programs. Division of postdoctoral training -approved 116 new programs (1498 positions), increased size of 79 programs (354 positions) and reviewed 273 programs for continuing approval. -conducted 3 osteopathic postdoctoral training institution (opti) continuing approval site visits. -executed a national educational conference for residency program directors and medical educators. -approved 371 acc-me pgy1, 110 federal/military pgy1 and 241 acc-me pgy2/fellowship training applications. Division of training program review services-continued its charge of reviewing all osteopathic training programs. In fiscal year 2015, over 270 inspections were conducted. 
