---
name: "Shimer College"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 362167921
homepage: "www.Shimer.edu"
address: |
 3424 South State Street, \nChicago, IL 60616
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62666
lat: 41.832455
description: "Shimer provides and preserves education centered on discussion of enduring questions and issues. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Shimer college provides and preserves education centered on discussion of enduring questions and issues. Historically influential original sources are studied through socratic questioning in small seminar classes, following the kind of great books curriculum advocated by robert maynard hutchins. The core values informing education at shimer are free inquiry, dialog, critical open-mindedness, and integration of disciplines. The college offers all members of its community the opportunity to participate meaningfully in deciding the future of the institution. A shimer education demands much of both the intellect and the character of students, and prepares them for responsible citizenship and the examined life. Weekday program: the weekday program is the traditional four-year college experience. The majority of shimer students participate in the weekday program where they enjoy a traditional four-year college experience. Shimer students participate in our small discussion-based classes and then continue the conversation at meals, in the residences, and at on-campus events that include lectures, theatre, and music. The core curriculum immerses students in the major works, questions, and methods of millennia of western intellectual tradition, and accounts for about two-thirds of the coursework. The other third consists of elective courses that offer in-depth study in a particular subject or field. The discussion of primary texts, in classes of 12 students or fewer, offers a unique environment for intellectual and personal growth, and fosters engaged, independent, and careful thinkers. The core consists of required classes in:-humanities-natural sciences-social sciences-integrative studies
