---
name: "Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362167034
homepage: "www.JUF.org"
address: |
 30 South Wells No 4049, \nChicago, IL 60606
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Juf is the chicago jewish community's central philanthropy, funding wide-ranging services. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Juf provides critical resources that bring food, refuge, health care, education and emergency assistance to 300,000 chicagoans of all faiths and 2 million jews in israel and around the world, funding a network of nearly 70 agencies and programs. Allocations (local) - the jewish united fund of metropolitan chicago (juf) conducts fundraising activities by means of annual calendar year campaigns and makes allocations to jewish federation of metropolitan chicago (jf) and jewish federations of north america (jfna). Through its allocation to jf, juf supports various nonprofit organizations in the chicago area that provide assistance to people of all faiths, including hot meals and groceries, utility and rent assistance, prescriptions and medical care for impoverished families; job training and placement for people who are out of work; therapeutic school and specialized care for children with disabilities; support services for holocaust survivors; assisted living, specialized alzheimer's care and transportation for seniors; respite services for caregivers of frail seniors and people with disabilities; counseling, prevention and intervention services for troubled teens; and an entire continuum of prevention and therapeutic services for individuals and families in crisis. Because the jewish united fund of metropolitan chicago and the jewish federation of metropolitan chicago (juf) are so closely linked in numerous ways (combined board of directors, shared professional staff, shared office space, etc. ), and because juf provides an annual, multi-million dollar allocation to the jewish federation, we measure and report our program and service results jointly for the combined juf/federation enterprise, which are summarized below:local human services- 514,514 meals, food bags and grocery cards were delivered to needy local jews. - 3,755 households received more than $4. 6 million in emergency financial assistance to pay for housing, healthcare and other critical expenses. - 881 workers secured paid jobs. - 303 new and existing small business entrepreneurs got help to launch or expand their businesses, creating 144 new jobs. - 1,162 impoverished jews received life-preserving prescription medications. - 22,619 individuals received free or highly-subsidized mental and physical healthcare. - 5,564 seniors received services enabling them to stay in their homes. - 3,189 people received assistance applying for public benefits. - 526 low-income families received free or subsidized legal assistance. - 288 people were placed into more affordable, stable housing. - 646 holocaust survivors maximized their independence through in-home services, emergency financial assistance, group support, advocacy and socialization. - 1,288 children with disabilities received intensive therapeutic services and education. Formal and informal jewish education services:- 22,299 children and youth engaged in jewish learning and built stronger jewish identities through formal and informal jewish educational experiences. - 3 in 4 jewish day school students received scholarships and/or tuition assistance. - 2,850 students received tuition financial assistance at 14 local jewish day schools. - local day schools got assistance with facilities management, security, loan guarantees, governance, benchmarking, and resource development. - 1,549 children received more than $1. 1 million in scholarships for jewish summer camp experiences. - 638 families received more than $1. 5 million in financial assistance or subsidies for a jewish early childhood educational experiences. Israel connections, advocacy and education services:- 1,771 jewish young adults went on free trips to israel courtesy of juf birthright israel, strengthening their connection to the jewish homeland. - 904 youth received juf-supported scholarships that helped them afford pivotal educational experiences in israel. - 3,395 teens gained knowledge and skills to better articulate support for israel through juf-supported programs in local high schools and jewish summer camp. - on 16 major campuses statewide, the jcrc/hillel israel initiative partners with other religious, ethnic and cultural groups to present pro-israel programs for hundreds of students and faculty. - 4 major illinois universities now have flourishing israel studies programs, established in partnership with juf/federation to share israel's contributions to technology, science and culture. - 55 participants from 13 area high schools engaged in write-on for israel, an intensive, two-year israel advocacy training program for upperclassmen. Services for families with young children:- 6,317 families with 9,589 young children received free, monthly jewish books and music through juf's pj library program. - 683 jewish families with young children participated in juf young families programs, exploring jewish life through arts & crafts, storytelling and holiday celebrations in public venues. - 286 new jewish parents received jbaby chicago 'swag bags' which included free jewish books among its offering of welcome to jewish newborns. Hands-on volunteerism and teen services:- 12,177 jews of all ages volunteered through juf's tov volunteer network and our juf partner agencies, providing hands-on assistance from serving meals to people in need to tutoring at-risk children. - 648 teens furthered their connection and engagement in chicago's jewish community through leadership roles in local juf-supported programming. - 452 teens and college students made a difference in the lives of poor jews, seniors and people with disabilities through juf-sponsored volunteer services. - 111 teens in grades 6-12 from 26 schools participated in monthly community service projects. Young adult engagement and leadership development services:- 3,798 college students engaged in jewish activities on illinois campuses, raising their awareness of jewish values, knowledge of israel and commitment to the greater jewish community. - 34 local college students participated in an intensive summer work/study program in chicago jewish communal service, working for agencies or departments of the jewish united fund/jewish federation of metropolitan chicago. - 1,509 young business professionals attended 15 events focused on engaging the next generation of jewish businessmen and businesswomen. - 375 russian-speaking jewish young professionals came to 20 specialized events to connect with each other, the broader community, and with their own jewish identity. - 435 young professionals were engaged in a leadership capacity as members of the boards of the young leadership division, young women's board and young women's city council, which in turn gained the participation of 6,429 individuals in 132 education, advocacy, fundraising and outreach events, setting them on the path to intensive jewish involvement. - 23 professionals in their 30s and 40s, selected for their leadership potential, began participation in an intensive jewish leaders institute, grooming them for the institution's most senior leadership positions through orientation to juf/federation; organizational leadership training; education about jewish history, values and community. - some 82,500 unique visitors came to oy!chicago, the outreach blog for unaffiliated local 20- and 30-somethings. - 86 community members serve on the juf/federation board of directors, and 350 additional community members participating in the board's 30 standing committees. 
