---
name: "Chicago Foundlings Home"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- social
- funding
- greek
ein: 362167002
homepage: "n/a"
address: |
 1300 West Lexington Street, \nChicago, IL 60607
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.66028
lat: 41.8722
description: "Programs for young women & children including prenatal care, family planning & counseling. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The home currently provides support to charitable organizations that provide care, education and other services in community-based settings to expectant mothers, mothers, infants and children. Additionally, the home provides required information on any adoption processed by the home to respective adoptees, mothers who gave up their children for adoption and, if for medical reasons, to parents of the adoptees. Programs that provide prenatal care and family planning services to teens and young adults. Rush adolescent family center is one of the oldest, most respected prenatal and family planning clinics for teens. The prenatal care program provides a full range of care, with prenatal counseling and education programs. The family planning program provides confidential gynecological care, contraceptive and counseling services. The community education program provides pregnancy prevention, family life education and reproductive health education to teens and preteens attending chicago area schools and agencies. Holy family new beginnings program is a prenatal care program designed to provide the best possible environment for babies to be born healthy. A bilingual staff provides counseling and emotional support as well as exams, lab testing, nutritional counseling, childbirth classes, infant care, parenting, siblings and assistance in filing for benefits. 
