---
name: "CHICAGO HISTORICAL SOCIETY"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- social
- greek
- arts
ein: 362167004
homepage: "www.chicagohistory.org"
address: |
 1601 N Clark Street, \nChicago, IL 60614
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.63173
lat: 41.91134
description: "We share chicago's stories, serving as a hub of scholarship and learning, inspiration and civic engagement. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

We share chicago's stories,serving as a hub of schlarlship and learning, inspiration and civic engagement
  
  education and audience-the museum engages audiences as collaborators, storytellers, and supporters of history. The museum facilitates dialogue among our visitors. It organizes and presents school programs. We provided 68 teacher workshops that assist with the development of curriculum for students. These programs were attended by over 3,000 teachers from a 114 schools. The institution pursues these areas through audience development and strives to encourage program participation with families, young adults, our members and schools. The museum seeks to give context to the history for all audiences to better represent the people, places, events and experiences of chicago. In fy15 62,385 k-12 students visited the museum, along with more than 272,000, we provide adult education programs, film screenings and public history tours of the many areas of city of chicago. We have created online resources on many history topics including 'facing freedom challenges to democracy', 'sensing chicago' and the 'great chicago fire'. The museum also served nearly 2,000 students through our off-site park voyagers program that we coordinate at chicago park district's field houses through out the city. We have included 'hot dog fest' for an outdoor family event along with another program 'moth storyslam'. Both received tremendous response. Our other popular event was the 'last speakeasy'. It was a wonderful event and many of our patrons got into the them with roaring 20's-30's clothing. 
