---
name: "Jewish Vocational Service & Employment Center"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 362167762
homepage: "www.jvschicago.org"
address: |
 216 West Jackson Blvd No 700, \nChicago, IL 60606
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.63463
lat: 41.878117
description: "Since 1884, jvs chicago has been committed to improving life through employment and productivity, recognizing that personal development is a lifetime endeavor. Jvs chicago serves more than 8,000 employees, employers and entrepreneurs annually with programs for adults, youth, seniors and people with disabilities, serving entry level to advanced career job seekers, at locations across metropolitan chicago. Services include career counseling, job skills training and customized job training, job placement, credit building, small business development, access to capital and more. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Since 1884, jewish vocational services (jvs) chicago has been committed to improving life through employment and productivity, recognizing that personal development is a lifetime endeavor. Jvs chicago serves more than 8,000 employees, employers and entrepreneurs annually with programs for adults, youth, seniors and people with disabilities, serving entry level to advanced career job seekers, at locations across metropolitan chicago. Services include career counseling, job skills training and customized job training, job placement, credit building, small business development, access to capital and more. Job counseling and placement:jvs chicago offers comprehensive career development services for jobseekers of all experiences and abilities, including recent college graduates, executives in transition, those who are unemployed and underemployed, and career changers. Services include customized career counseling, workshops in job search skills, resume writing, social networking, interviewing networking events, and job placement for jobseekers at all stages of their careers. Agency community technology centers provide free access to computers and a wide range of computer training digital literacy classes to community residents and job seekers. Adult basic education and english as a second language classes enable jobseekers to improve basic skills to enter a job training program, study for job training tests, or acquire a skills certification. Additionally, the agency provides business education and technical assistance to new and expanding small business owners at the illinois sbdc/duman entrepreneurship center. The center also provides financial coaching, credit score analysis, credit building and repair, and household budgeting. Access to private small business loan funds are also part of the center's portfolio. 
