---
name: "Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362256036
homepage: "www.ric.org"
address: |
 345 E Superior Street, \nChicago, IL 606112654
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.618515
lat: 41.89583
description: "The rehabilitation institute of chicago is dedicated to provide the highest-quality patient care. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The rehabilitation institute of chicago (ric) is dedicated to providing the highest-quality patient care through integrated research, scientific discovery, and education for the purpose of maximizing the recovery of the individuals in our care. Clinical care - founded in 1951, ric, an illinois not-for-profit corporation, earned the distinction of being named the nation's #1-ranked provider of comprehensive physical medicine and rehabilitation care to patients from around the world for 25 years by u. S. News & world report - a record for any u. S. Hospital. Ric also is the nation's largest rehabilitation research enterprise, advancing the field globally through innovation of the most advanced treatments and technologies. Ric is the only rehabilitation hospital in the nation to hold a record eight federally designated research programs in the areas of computers and robots in therapy, mobility technologies, health and function in disabilities, neurologic rehabilitation, spinal cord injury, rehabilitation engineering, patient outcomes, and pediatric orthopedics. Ric's vision is to advance human ability through science and research. In january 2012, ric opened 24 beds on a renovated patient floor that featured the world's first ability lab, an innovative treatment space that combines research and clinical care, surrounding the patient within the hospital setting. Ric's care quality and delivery highlights:ric currently operates a system of care consisting of a 182 bed hospital and outpatient facility, located at 345 east superior street in chicago, illinois, as well as a number of other facilities and joint ventures. On february 5, 2013, the illinois health facilities and services review board granted ric a licensure for 242 beds for its new research hospital and outpatient facility currently under construction at 355 east erie, chicago, il. The corporation offers a comprehensive range of inpatient, day rehabilitation and outpatient services throughout the system. Inpatient rehabilitation services are provided using a multidisciplinary approach. Day treatment rehabilitation consists of a multidisciplinary approach for individuals no longer requiring the 24-hour nursing services provided in an inpatient setting. Outpatient care is typically a singular discipline (e. G. , physical therapy) and offers various levels of therapeutic intensity, depending on the patient's needs and goals. In fy 2015 ric treated more than 6,300 inpatients throughout its system of care and delivered over a million outpatient therapy units. Ric's facilities are staffed by approximately 1,700 medical professionals and support personnel, a dedicated team who in fy 2015 treated patients from 43 states and handled referrals from 61 countries. Each patient at ric is assigned a personalized care team consisting of the field's most well-trained rehabilitation doctors, nurses, therapists, care managers and clinical specialists. No other specialty hospital in the nation has a more experienced track record of being rated #1 for twenty-five consecutive years. Ric is one of only 2% of the nation's nearly 6,000 hospitals to have achieved three consecutive magnet designations for nursing excellence from the american nurses credentialing center (ancc) and the only free-standing acute inpatient rehabilitation hospital to have this distinction. 
