---
name: "WINDOW TO THE WORLD COMMUNICATIONS INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- family
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- arts
ein: 362246703
homepage: "wttw.com"
address: |
 5400 N St Louis Avenue, \nChicago, IL 60625
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.71608
lat: 41.979477
description: "Window to the world communications inc is chicago's premier public media organization committed to creating and presenting unique content for television, radio, and digital media. We are: . . . Dedicated to bringing chicago and the world together and invite our audiences to explore the knowledge and creative life of the arts, sciences, humanities, and public affairs. . . . Committed to diverse perspectives, accessibility, innovation, community engagement, and life-long learning - we embrace the power of public service to make lives richer and our region stronger. . . . Trusted by parents, grandparents, care-givers, and teachers and provide educational content that promotes the healthy development of our children. . . . Balanced in our objective, in-depth reporting and encourage our audiences to engage in dialogue and make informed decisions. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Window to the world communications inc is chicago's premier public media organization committed to creating and presenting unique content for television, radio, and digital media. We are: . . . Dedicated to bringing chicago and the world together and invite our audiences to explore the knowledge and creative life of the arts, sciences, humanities, and public affairs. . . . Committed to diverse perspectives, accessibility, innovation, community engagement, and life-long learning - we embrace the power of public service to make lives richer and our region stronger. . . . Trusted by parents, grandparents, care-givers, and teachers and provide educational content that promotes the healthy development of our children. . . . Balanced in our objective, in-depth reporting and encourage our audiences to engage in dialogue and make informed decisions. Wttw channel 11 is chicago's premier public media organization committed to creating and presenting unique content for television, and digital media. We are: . . . Dedicated to bringing chicago and the world together and invite our audiences to explore the knowledge and creative life of the arts, sciences, humanities, and public affairs. . . . Committed to diverse perspectives, accessibility, innovation, community engagement, and life-long learning - we embrace the power of public service to make lives richer and our region stronger. . . . Trusted by parents, grandparents, care-givers, and teachers and provide educational content that promotes the healthy development of our children. . . . Balanced in our objective, in-depth reporting and encourage our audiences to engage in dialogue and make informed decisions. 
