---
name: "The Chicago Area Project"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362256023
homepage: "www.ChicagoAreaProject.org"
address: |
 55 East Jackson Blvd Suite 900, \nChicago, IL 60604
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62588
lat: 41.878246
description: "To work toward the prevention and eradication of juvenile delinquency through the development and support of adulated, local community self-help efforts in communities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To work toward the prevention and eradication of juvenilie deliquency through the development and support of adulated, local community self-help efforts in communities where the need is the greatest. Illinois criminal justice information authority grant programs - the goals of chicago area project are to develop special projects and establish locally controlled organizations that implement the directives put forth in cap's mission and philosophy. Projects and affiliates are mandated to positively impact areas in the chicago vicinity with high rates of juvenile delinquency or other symptoms of social disorganization. Cap's objectives: -to develop local leadership broadly representative of the communities that are being served. -to conduct an annual community survey to assess needs and develop an action plan with a clear set of goals and objectives. -to improve the climate for the positive development of young people by achieving such improvements as increases in educational achievement levels and vocational skills. -to develop young people's leadership skills by involving them in youth-initiated community improvement activities or in cooperative projects with adults. -to set measurable goals and show progress in improving undesirable conditions. -to demonstrate an ability to raise funds, manage staff, and be accountable financially and programmatically. -to promote and inform the community about all programs. -to develop a referral/resource network with other agencies and institutions. -to develop and maintain all contractual record keeping documents as required. 
