---
name: "Mental Health Association of Greater Chicago Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- employment
- social
- military
- greek
ein: 362373128
homepage: "mentalhealthchicago.org"
address: |
 310 South Peoria Street Room 404, \nChicago, IL 60607
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.64958
lat: 41.8777
description: "The association is an advocate for the social and emotional health of children and families"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The association is an advocate for the social and emotional health of children and families, and provides practical tools and educational training for identification, prevention and referral of mental illness. The organization provides practical tools and educational programs for the identification, prevention, and referral to services for the mental wellness for children, adolescents, parents, educators and veterans. The focus is to educate about mental health, to reduce the stigma associated with it and provide knowledge for preventing mental illness when possible and protecting our brain/mental wellbeing. The organization has been educating students, parents and educators about mental health. The cornerstone program is the learning2live program. It offers a 10 days in 10 weeks curriculum designed to educate health professionals, law enforcement officers, teachers, counselors, school staff, parents, students and veteransabout mental health disorders including suicide, anxiety and depression, self-mutilation, post-traumatic stress, traumatic brain injury, and eating disorders. Additional programs include 2tough2bully - focused on helping individuals become internally tough so they do not bully nor are they bullied. In addition we provide several sessions for lifelong mental health. 
