---
name: "Erikson Institute"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- social
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
ein: 362593545
homepage: "www.erikson.edu"
address: |
 451 North LaSalle Street, \nChicago, IL 606544510
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Erikson institute is the premier independent institution of higher education committed to ensuring that all children have equitable opportunities to reach their potential. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Erikson institute is the premier independent institution of higher education committed to ensuring that all children have equitable opportunities to reach their potential. Recognized for our groundbreaking work in the field of early childhood, we uniquely prepare child development, education, and social work leaders to improve the lives of young children and their families. Our impact and influence is further amplified through our innovative academic programs, applied research, knowledge creation and distribution, direct service, and field-wide advocacy. Because nothing matters more than a child's early years, erikson institute educates, inspires, and provides leadership to serve the needs of children and families so that all can achieve optimal education, social, emotional, and physical well-being. Erikson institute: erikson institute provides graduate level education and training in child development, social work and early childhood education. Approximately 270 students are enrolled in erikson's graduate certificate, master's degree and doctoral degree programs. 65 master's degree students and 3 doctoral students graduated in may 2015. In addition to its degree and certificate programs, erikson helps further the education of 2,000 working professionals each year through its continuing education courses, workshops, webinars, and customized on-site staff development. 
