---
name: "Envision Unlimited"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- employment
- social
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362544178
homepage: "www.envisionchicago.org"
address: |
 8 South Michigan Ave No 1700, \nChicago, IL 60603
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62429
lat: 41.882015
description: "Envision unlimited's mission is to provide quality services to persons with developmental disabilities and other special needs that promote choice, independence and community integration. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Because we are a large, multi-faceted agency, our mission may manifest differently at different programs, but it is the shared goal that fuels the agency. Envision unlimited offers programs for people of all ages and abilities-through home-based supports and program sites spanning the city of chicago. We provide early intervention services for infants and toddlers from birth to the age of three years old, foster care, respite, job training, job placement, a broad residential program, and programming for seniors. Community living servicesenvision unlimited's community living services offer an array of residential options for adults with disabilities. The types of support vary - some programs provide 24-hour staff supports while others utilize supportive services per the needs of the person. Envision unlimited offers housing solutions considerate of the individualize needs of the person served. In addition to housing, supportive staff, social interactions, and opportunities to engage fully within the community activities afford men and women with the possibility to discover something most valuable. . . A place which they are proud to call home. Referrals are made to envision unlimited through the illinois department of human services and developmental disabilities, the illinois department of child and family services, community service options (cso) on the south side of chicago and community alternatives unlimited (cau) on the north side of chicago. Envision unlimited also receives referrals from outside of the city from agencies in the collar counties. 
