---
name: "MYSI Corporation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362545537
homepage: "myschicago.org"
address: |
 3001 W 111th Street No 103, \nChicago, IL 60655
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Mys provides clinical, case management, and rehabilitative services to help families and youth. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Mysi corporation was established to provide a full range of clinical, rehabilitative, educational, recreational and case management services to disadvantaged youths and others in each of its programs. Mysi provides the highest quality services to empower its clients to reach their full potential, become productive members of society, and to encourage the highest standards of responsible citizenship. Mysi is licensed by the state of illinois and operates under the guidance of the united methodist health and welfare ministries northern illinois conference. Transitional living program addresses the social, employability and self reliance needs of young men and women between the ages of 19 and 21 years old. The program is operated from five facilities on the north and south sides of chicago and south suburbs and has the capacity to serve a maximum of fifty young men and women. One facility is a congregate living group home and four facilities are in apartment like settings. Each youth has access to computers and other amenities. Youth are taught life skills, developing appropriate social skills, the basics of cooking, living in a group setting, creating positive peer relationships, and budget management. The program provides supervision twenty four hours per day, seven days per week, incorporating structured programming as required on an individual basis. 
