---
name: "Gateway Foundation Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- elderly
- social
- addiction
- funding
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362670036
homepage: "www.recovergateway.org"
address: |
 55 E Jackson Blvd No 1500, \nChicago, IL 60604
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Gateway foundation is a national, non-profit organization committed to reducing substance abuse and co-occurring mental health problems through effective and efficient treatment programs. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Gateway foundation is a national, non-profit organization committed to reducing substance abuse and co-occurring mental health problems through effective and efficient treatment programs. See schedule ogateway foundation, inc. And its affiliates are chicago-based not-for-profit organizations committed to the fight against alcohol and other substance abuse and drug addiction. Since 1968, we have been an industry leader in providing the answers individuals and their families need related to drug and alcohol treatment. Our substance abuse treatment programs treat both adults and teens and include outpatient, residential, day treatment, and aftercare. We also provide treatment to those who are challenged with a co-occurring/dual-diagnosed mental health problem. Gateway's drug and alcohol treatment programs are innovative, effective, and cost-efficient. We are an organization that has always been sensitive to the cost of care and we aim to provide affordable treatment that is within our clients' reach. Gateway has rehabilitation centers conveniently located in chicago, throughout illinois, and near st. Louis. In fiscal year 2015, gateway foundation operated 27 corrections-based programs located in missouri, new jersey, and illinois, providing correctional treatment to men, women, and dually-diagnosed substance abusers each year. Throughout the year, we served almost 20,000 justice involved individuals. Our services are delivered in a variety of correctional treatment settings such as prisons, jails, pre-release and reporting day centers. We also provide in-custody correctional treatment, jail-based services, transitional care, and continued care post-release from incarceration. In fiscal year 2015, gateway foundation, inc. Community division received a grant from the department of commerce and economic opportunity (dceo) which will assist in the 10-bed expansion project at its drug rehab center located in aurora, il. Facts about gateway alcohol and drug treatment -largest provider of adult and teen substance abuse treatment in illinois. -provide free in-depth consultations to help determine the severity of substance use and identify the appropriate level of treatment. Our goal is to help our clients and their loved ones better understand the options and next steps related to drug and alcohol treatment. -we are licensed by the state of illinois and accredited by the joint commission, the leading accrediting organization for hospitals and other health care organizations. -we are approved by most health care insurance companies. 
