---
name: "Community Investment Corporation"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- religious
- family
- nature
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- rehabilitation
- arts
ein: 362780862
homepage: "www.cicchicago.org"
address: |
 222 South Riverside Plaza 2200, \nChicago, IL 60606
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Community investment corporation's ('cic') purpose is to preserve and revitalize lower income neighborhoods in the six county chicago metro area through the public and private financing of the rehabilitation of low and moderate income rental housing. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Community investment corporation (cic) is a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) corporation. Incorporated in 1973, cic's mission is to be the leading force in neighborhood revitalization through innovative financial programs. In pursuit of this mission, cic has become the leading lender for the acquisition, rehabilitation, and preservation of affordable rental housing throughout the chicago metropolitan area. Cic provides one of the very few sources of capital for redeveloping and maintaining affordable rental housing, primarily located in low and moderate-income communities. Cic exercises sound management and fiscal prudence in its operations. In fy 2015, in the midst of an economy that continues to present great challenges in chicago's low and moderate income communities, cic provided $30 million in financial assistance for 1,342 units of affordable rental housing throughout the chicago area. Cic continued to pursue its mission with vigor, expertise, and effectiveness. Cic continues to lend and persevere in its mission to provide capital for the redevelopment of affordable housing, most of which is located in our region's low and moderate-income communities. Cic continues to exercise sound management and fiscal prudence in its operations. In fy 2015 cic approved and closed or has closings pending for 53 loans with $23. 1 million in the investor multifamily loan program funds for 706 residential units and 47 commercial units for a total of 753 units and 12 loans with $5. 5 million in the investor 1-4 lending program. Of these units, 100% of the units in the buildings were affordable at 80% of area median income, 88% of the units were affordable at 60% of area median income, and 67% of the units were affordable at 50% of area median income. 11 loans with $600 thousand in energy savers retrofit and onbill second mortgage funds for 65 housing units. 
