---
name: "Illinois Action for Children"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362712912
homepage: "www.actforchildren.org"
address: |
 4753 North Broadway, \nChicago, IL 60640
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.65926
lat: 41.968212
description: "Illinois action for children's outreach and work with low-income, hard-to-reach families has led us to research and implement highly effective and innovative programs and advocacy to ensure that early care and education, and other opportunities, are accessible to the children most in need. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Illinois action for children is a catalyst for organizing, developing and supporting strong families and powerful communities where children matter most. As a state and national leader in the early care and education community, illinois action for children stands distinguished by its 'strong families, powerful communities' approach to child development, pre-k education, and other family and community supports. Program services include family resources (child care referral and financial assistance), provider resources (program improvement and professional development), numerous early learning programs, outreach and home visiting, mental health consultation, public health outreach, and the healthy food program. A public policy and advocacy program that works with and on behalf of a member base of child care providers, parents, educators, and other advocates. Annually, we directly serve approximately 250,000 parents, children and child care providers, and 5,000 child care organization
  
  provider services/provider resources - illinois action for children works with licensed and license-exempt child care providers to support them through educational and professional development opportunities, as well as technical assistance and other valuable supports that help to enhance the care they provide. Illinois action for children and its community partners had more than 16,000 participants in nearly 1,400 trainings and workshops during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2015. Our early learning programs make early education available to young children so that they will be ready to succeed when they start school. Our programs have created a national model for providing preschool to children in home child care who would otherwise not have access to early education, and for training providers to become a child's first teacher. 
