---
name: "Center for Neighborhood Technology"
tags:
- education
- professional
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 362967283
homepage: "www.cnt.org"
address: |
 2125 W North Avenue, \nChicago, IL 606475415
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To promote more livable and sustainable urban communities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

We research, invent, test, and deliver game-changing solutions for sustainable and equitable cities. Our goal is to advance urban sustainability, shared prosperity, and economic development through initiatives in transportation and community development, water, climate, and public policy. We coach city leaders, advise decision makers, advocate policy change, and find new ways to make neighborhoods, cities, and regions work better. Transportation + community development: healthy communities rely on a good transportation network that works for everyone. We help create communities with convenient transit, walkable destinations, access to jobs, and affordable housing. We seek to secure greater economic and social return for communities by capturing jobs and economic vitality from freight handling and freight-dependent industry. With the poverty rate in many cities at crisis levels, we help cities become more resilient and lower the cost of living for all residents through urban efficiency upgrades and economic development strategies. We help communities, cities, and regions understand the combined costs of housing and transportation. Our cutting edge research, reports, and web-based tools serve as catalysts for smart and sustainable urban planning and policy. 
