---
name: "Northwestern Memorial HealthCare"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363152959
homepage: "WWW.NM.ORG"
address: |
 251 E Huron 541 N Fairbanks, \nChicago, IL 606112908
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Northwestern memorial healthcare's exempt purpose is to provide support to its hospitals, physician care practices, its foundation and their affiliates"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Northwestern memorial healthcare's primary exempt purpose is to provide support to northwestern memorial hospital (nmh), northwestern lake forest hospital (nlfh), cdh-delnor health system (cdhs), central dupage hospital association dba central dupage hospital (cdh), delnor-community hospital (delnor), northwestern medical faculty foundation dba northwestern medical group (nmg), central dupage physician group dba northwestern regional medical group (rmg), northwestern memorial foundation (nmf), and other subsidiaries, and as of december 1, 2015, kishhealth system (khs). Northwestern memorial healthcare (nmhc) is the direct or indirect corporate parent of northwestern memorial hospital (nmh), northwestern lake forest hospital (nlfh), cdh-delnor health system (cdhs), central dupage hospital association dba central dupage hospital (cdh), delnor-community hospital (delnor), northwestern medical faculty foundation dba northwestern medical group (nmg), central dupage physician group dba northwestern regional medical group (rmg), northwestern memorial foundation (nmf), and other subsidiaries, and as of december 1, 2015, kishhealth system (khs). Working together under the brand northwestern medicine, nmhc and northwestern university feinberg school of medicine (feinberg) share a vision to transform medical care through clinical innovation, breakthrough research and academic excellence to make a positive difference in people's lives and the health of our communities. Nmhc provides comprehensive inpatient care at four acute care hospitals: nmh in chicago, cdh in winfield, nlfh in lake forest, and delnor in geneva. Outpatient care is provided at more than 80 locations in chicago and its north and west suburbs. Nmh is a not-for-profit corporation and part of an academic medical center (amc) in downtown chicago, illinois, providing a complete range of adult inpatient and outpatient services in an educational and research environment. The main patient care sites of nmh are the feinberg and galter pavilions, prentice women's hospital pavilion, olson pavilion, arkes family pavilion and the lavin family pavilion. Nmg is a multispecialty and primary care physician practice with more than 1,100 physicians, including the fulltime faculty of feinberg. Nlfh is a not-for-profit corporation that provides patient care services at its main hospital in lake forest, il and at locations across lake county and northern cook county, with a large outpatient campus in grayslake, il. Cdhs is the not-for-profit corporate parent of cdh and delnor, which provide a full range of adult and pediatric inpatient and outpatient care services in winfield, il and geneva, il and at locations in dupage and kane counties in il. Cdhs is also the not-for-profit corporate parent of rmg, which is a multi-specialty and primary care physician practice with more than 300 physicians. Nmf is a not-for-profit corporation that raises funds and makes grants in support of the mission and strategic goals of nmh, nlfh, cdh, delnor, nmg, rmg and other nmhc affiliates. Executive summary and background with a mission-driven commitment to providing quality medical care, regardless of the ability to pay, nmhc maintains its dedication to improve the health of the most medically underserved members of our community by: 1. Providing approximately $662 million in community benefit in fiscal year 2015 including charity care, other unreimbursed care, research, education and other community activities. 2. Supporting those newly insured under the affordable care act (aca) by continuing to provide medically necessary health care, and assisting patients in understanding their coverage and provider networks. 3. Providing approximately $100 million in funding for research and medical education in fiscal year 2015, including participating in more than 2,400 clinical research studies and training more than 900 medical students, residents and fellows. 4. Expanding access to healthcare services through establishment of primary care in the community, underwriting medically necessary diagnostic specialty care, developing targeted programs to help individuals better manage conditions such as diabetes and breast health; and through volunteer efforts. 5. Participating in community-based health initiatives aimed at promoting healthy lifestyles to reduce risk factors for heart disease and stroke and reduce rates of obesity, helping patients better manage chronic disease and reducing violence. Many in our communities gained access to care through healthcare insurance plans offered under the aca beginning in fiscal year 2014, reducing the total cost of care provided under our charity care programs. However, as our patients transitioned to coverage or experienced unexpected restrictions in networks or changes in coverage limits from year to year, nmhc continued to provide care not reimbursable under the new aca plans. Correspondingly, the total cost of care written off as bad debt increased significantly in fiscal years 2014 and 2015 compared to prior years. Nmhc is positioned to advance groundbreaking work that can only be accomplished with the resources of an amc and academic medical health system. As an academic medical health system, nmhc can take action beyond providing clinical care. Working with scientists and experts in public health we are striving to determine root causes and develop solutions to eradicate some of the most widespread, growing and complex public health issues facing the united states today - from diabetes, obesity, cancer and heart disease to persistent violence in our communities. Nmhc supports some of the nation's most advanced research programs, led by physician scientists at feinberg, who are driving the boundaries of science and medicine through nationally recognized research programs as well as entirely new scientific disciplines that are pioneering directions for preventing and curing disease. Nmhc is a growing, nationally recognized health system that provides world-class care at more than 80 locations and its four hospitals throughout chicago and the north and west suburbs, one patient at a time. More than 26,500 physicians, nurses, staff and volunteers provided care for more than 80,000 inpatient admissions and nearly two million outpatient registrations in fiscal year 2015. The geographical reach of nmhc meets the growing demand for quality healthcare close to where people live and work. Our patients have access to evidence-based medicine and research that is translated to clinical practice, offering new hope through leading-edge approaches to health, wellness and disease. The nmhc medical staff of more than 4,000 includes more than 1,000 residents and fellows and nearly 1,500 employed physicians who are part of the nmg or rmg. For generations, nmhc hospitals and healthcare organizations have served the vital role of providing trusted medical care in their communities. They have continually expanded in response to the needs of their communities, providing access to medically necessary care, regardless of the patient's ability to pay. Northwestern memorial hospital for more than 150 years, nmh and its predecessor institutions, passavant memorial and wesley memorial hospitals, have served residents of chicago. The commitment to provide healthcare, regardless of the ability to pay, reaches back to the founding principles of passavant and wesley and continues to be integral to our patients first mission. Nmh serves as the primary teaching hospital for feinberg, with more than 2,000 physicians on the medical staff and carrying faculty appointments at feinberg. Nmg has more than 1,100 physicians representing virtually every medical specialty and serving as fulltime faculty of feinberg. Nmh is among only seven percent of the nation's hospitals designated as an amc hospital, which according to the association of american medical colleges (aamc), in aggregate deliver a vastly disproportionate share of the nation's trauma, intensive care and tertiary services; provide a significantly higher proportion of medicaid care than non-teaching hospitals; and underwrite 41 percent of all hospital-based charity care. Nmh is an adult acute care hospital located in chicago's growing downtown area and saw more than 44,000 adults admitted as inpatients in fiscal year 2015. As an adult level i trauma center in downtown chicago with 24/7 service, nmh had more than 86,000 emergency department (ed) visits in fiscal year 2015. Nmh is also the only amc hospital in chicago participating in both city and state level i trauma networks and as a level iii neonatal intensive care unit, allowing us to provide lifesaving care and treatment to the most seriously injured adults and premature and sick infants. Nmh has the largest birthing center in illinois, with more than 12,000 deliveries in fiscal year 2015. Nmh also serves an important role for patients outside of chicago. As a nationally ranked amc hospital and a major referral center in the midwest and beyond, nmh is one of a limited number of places in the region where patients requiring advanced tertiary, quaternary or specialty services can access the care and services they need. Northwestern lake forest hospital from its founding 117 years ago as the alice home on the campus of lake forest college, nlfh has upheld the promise to provide lake county residents with convenient access to quality care supported by advanced diagnostics and technology. At nlfh's 117-bed hospital, more than 700 physicians offer lake county residents conve
