---
name: "Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- employment
- social
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363151279
homepage: "www.povertylaw.org"
address: |
 50 East Washington No 500, \nChicago, IL 60602
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To advance laws and policies to improve the lives and opportunities of people living in poverty"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The sargent shriver national center on poverty law (the shriver center) is an illinois not-for-profit corporation that provides national leadership in advancing laws and policies that secure justice to improve the lives and opportunities of people living in poverty. Advocacy programs work to address the range of issues impacting people living in poverty through direct advocacy and policy development. This niche is the nexus between federal policy and state implementation, a key position in the era of increasing devolution of power to the states in many areas of social policy and law. The shriver center uses illinois as a policy lab, developing models that inform policy development and advocacy initiatives undertaken in other states, and when asked, playing an advisory role to fellow advocates across the country. On occasion, the attorney-advocates work directly on federal policies and laws. The driving motivation is to give a voice and representation to people living in poverty in decisions that affect their lives. In 2014, the shriver center launched the legal impact network, a coordinated effort by executive directors and advocates from 29 statewide law and policy advocacy organizations that engage in multi-issue advocacy to advance systems change on behalf of people living in poverty. The states represented include more than three-fourths of all people living in poverty in the u. S. The shriver center coordinates the work of the legal impact network and supports network members' work through training, information-sharing, and online community-building tools and forums. The shriver center's advocates, who have a wide range of expertise in anti-poverty advocacy at the state level, are active participants in the legal impact network's strategic working groups. 
