---
name: "Sinai Health System"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363166895
homepage: "WWW.SINAI.ORG"
address: |
 2750 West 15th Street, \nChicago, IL 60608
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.69442
lat: 41.860157
description: "Sinai's mission is to improve the health of the individuals and communities it serves. Located on the west side of the city of chicago and serving a population base of 1. 5 million people in its service area zip codes, sinai health system (sinai) consists of six member organizations. They are mount sinai hospital, holy cross hospital, schwab rehabilitation hospital, sinai community institute, sinai medical group, and sinai urban health institute. Sinai has a number of clinics that are located on the west and south sides of chicago. There is also one facility, sinais touhy clinic on the north side of chicago, which sees refugees from many nations (for example sudan, iraq and burma) as well as resident orthodox jewish and russian populations. With the exception of the touhy clinic, sinai health system serves primarily african-american and latino patients. Sinais programs and community outreach are based on scientific epidemiological assessments of local neighborhoods done by sinai urban he"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Sinai's mission is to improve the health of the individuals and communities it serves. Located on the west side of the city of chicago and serving a population base of 1. 5 million people in its service area zip codes, sinai health system (sinai) consists of six member organizations. They are mount sinai hospital, holy cross hospital, schwab rehabilitation hospital, sinai community institute, sinai medical group, and sinai urban health institute. Sinai has a number of clinics that are located on the west and south sides of chicago. There is also one facility, sinais touhy clinic on the north side of chicago, which sees refugees from many nations (for example sudan, iraq and burma) as well as resident orthodox jewish and russian populations. With the exception of the touhy clinic, sinai health system serves primarily african-american and latino patients. Sinais programs and community outreach are based on scientific epidemiological assessments of local neighborhoods done by sinai urban he
  
  hud project:the intervention, entitled helping chicagos westside adults breathe and thrive: a health homes approach to improving respiratory health (hcwabt), is the first to examine the effects of a community health worker (chw)-based intervention on improving asthma management among adults. Hcwabt builds off of suhis helping children breathe and thrive (hcbt) program, which officially ended in august 2013. The program served both adults and children with asthma living in cha developments on the westside, and saw significant improvements in overall asthma management and reductions in asthma triggers found in the home environment among participants. Hcwabt is a three year project and officially kicked off in november of 2013. Hcwabt is suhis eighth asthma grant, and when completed, suhi will have been intervening to improve asthma management in some of chicagos most vulnerable communities for over 15 years. Chws conduct 5-6 home visits over the course of the 12-month intervention, where they provide comprehensive asthma and healthy homes education. We have completed seven months of recruitment. Methods of recruitment that have been implemented include referrals from: sinai emergency department, sinai inpatient units (hospitalizations), sinai physicians and the chicago housing authority. As of june 30, 1026 referrals were received. Forty-one percent of these referrals came from sinais emergency department but since contact information is limited to patients medical files, usually half of ed referrals were never reached. Although only 22% of total referrals came from the chicago housing authority, this referral source accounts for one third of the successful baseline visits we have completed, since participants initiated their own referral. Nearly 21% of total referrals were ineligible for hcwabt, in large part due to their home zip code being outside of the service area. A few ineligible participants were given one-time teaching sessions since they could not be enrolled in the program. As of june 30, 175 adults have completed their baseline visit and are enrolled in the program. Recruitment for this grant and this phase of the program will end august 30, 2015. Data collected through the end of june included 12-month follow-ups for 37 participants. We can already see significant improvements in outcomes in symptoms, health resource utilization and quality of life (qol) among participants who have completed the intervention. There has been a 68% reduction in daytime symptoms for those who have so far completed the hcwabt intervention. Additionally, hospitalizations due to asthma have decreased by 50% and asthma-related emergency department visits have decreased by 57%. Furthermore, the overall qol score increased from an average of 3. 4 to 4. 2 over the twelve-month period. Qol activity limitation sub-score was 1. 1 points higher for adults at the end of the intervention than at baseline (from 3. 4 to 4. 5) all five of the adult qol scores increased by at least 0. 6 point and usually much more. These changes indicate clinical and statistical significance. The improvements in frequency of symptoms, urgent health resource utilization and quality of life all confirm that we are reaching our target population of adults with evidence of poor asthma control and in need of intensive intervention. The greater humboldt park community diabetes empowerment center at 2753 west division street, chicago is a community-driven partnership of five medical providers (sinai health systems, northwestern medicine, norwegian american hospital, saints mary and elizabeth medical center, and the public health institute) and three community organizations (the greater humboldt park community of wellness, the puerto rican cultural center, and pueblo sin fronteras). The center is a highly visible community resource to prevent and control type 2 diabetes for the residents of greater humboldt park and surrounding neighborhoods. Since type 2 diabetes is impacted by both physiological and social determinants of health, the center is part of a multi-level community-driven approach that provides health education, physical activities, nutritional counseling, and social support to neighborhood residents in a community environment that facilitates collaborative learning about diabetes. The center strives to inform, advocate, and empower residents -- regardless of literacy, language, insurance status, or income to reduce the health risks associated with diabetes. Sinai health system is a strong and long-term partner with this work. Grant funds are used to support:1. Operational infrastructure at the diabetes empowerment center such as telephone, internet, alarm services, cleaning and maintenance supplies;2. The muevete physical activity program including salary of the muevete coordinator, stipends for community physical activity leaders, printing of forms and outreach material, equipment, supplies and healthy snacks for physical activity events and meetings. The muevete program provides physical activity programs in a variety of community-based settings throughout the project area. The programs are designed primarily to facilitate weight loss and improve glycemic control among people with diabetes as well as without diabetes. The muevete coordinator trains community volunteer facilitators to lead and administer the physical activity program at each location. Muevete organizes physical activity oriented community events and has developed a network of community programs and organizations doing similar work in the project area. Muevete offers free use of two treadmills, dance aerobics, zumba, and pilates. 3. Expenses for health education and cooking classes, including healthy snacks, printing, equipment, supplies, teaching material, and incentives. Health education and nutrition classes are offered weekly. Programming remained consistent in fy2015, with solid participation and turnout from the community. 
