---
name: "Housing Opportunities for Women Inc"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- women
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363263818
homepage: "www.how-inc.org"
address: |
 1607 West Howard Street, \nChicago, IL 60626
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide premanent solutions to the problems of homelessness and poverty for women and children"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

How's mission is to empower women, children and families to permanently break the cycle of poverty and homelessness. For the 1,000 individuals how serves every year we provide permanent supportive housing, help individuals increase their income and access to benefits and improve our clients physical and mental wellness. How works with and through our clients to overcome the multiple barriers that often prevent homeless individuals from achieving their highest and best potential. How provides permanent supportive housing to 1,000 individuals annually. How clients are in many cases disabled and unable to work, chronically homeless and have mental and physical health issues that need to be addressed to achieve their personal goals. Headquartered in the rogers park neighborhood, how employs the housing first model to get individuals and families a place to call home. Once housed we work to reintegrate our clients into the neighborhood of choice through our scattered site housing that stretches across the entire city of chicago. At how, we are focused on building on our clients individual strengths and connecting them to community resources. Through this combination we can create lasting positive change for our clients. 
