---
name: "Childrens Hospital of Chicago Medical Center"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363357004
homepage: "www.luriechildrens.org"
address: |
 225 E Chicago Ave PR Dept BOX 269, \nChicago, IL 606112991
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.622925
lat: 41.896748
description: "Establish, develop, promote & conduct educat'l prgms, sci rerch, healthcare facilities & other charitable & educat'l activities devoted to health & welfare to infants & children. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

We are dedicated to the health and well-being of all children. As the pediatric teaching facility for northwestern university's feinberg school of medicine, this commitment drives us to be a leader in: - pediatric health care delivery - research into the prevention, causes and treatment of diseases that affect children - education for physicians, nurses and allied health professionals - advocacy for children as a charitable organization, we serve children and their families to the best of our abilities and to the limits of our resources. The children's hospital of chicago medical center ('medical center'), an illinois not-for-profit corporation, engages in budget approval, asset management, resource allocation, investment oversight and strategic planning for affiliates. Affiliates include organizations for which the medical center is a controlling member. Currently, the medical center has the following affiliates: ann & robert h. Lurie children's hospital of chicago, ann & robert h. Lurie children's hospital of chicago foundation, ann & robert h. Lurie children's hospital of chicago research center, lurie children's medical group, llc and pediatric faculty foundation, inc, lurie children's health partners care coordination, llc, almost home kids and lurie children's health partners clinically integrated network llc. Lurie children's medical group, llc ('medical group') is an illinois limited liability company whose sole member is the medical center. By virtue of the medical center's tax-exempt status, the medical group is considered to be an organization described under section 501(c)(3) of the code. The medical group employs pathologists, radiologists, psychiatrists and dentists who practice at ann & robert h. Lurie children's hospital of chicago ('lurie children's'). The medical group's pathologists comprise the lurie children's department of pathology and laboratory medicine which provides comprehensive services in both anatomic and clinical pathology, utilizing extensive expertise and state-of-the-art technology. Consultative services are provided across the country in collaboration and coordination with lurie children's medical, surgical and ancillary departments. The children encompass a cross-section of diagnoses and the department assists in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic diseases. The medical group psychiatrists practice within lurie children's department of child and adolescent psychiatry which offers children and their families specialized services in pediatric mental health. Clinicians in the department provide state of the art psychiatric and psychological services, education, and advocacy. The medical group psychiatrists provide national leadership in the education of mental health care professionals and advancement of knowledge through research. The medical group psychiatrists treat children of all ages and from every socioeconomic background for a wide variety of problems including adjustment disorders, emotional problems related to pediatric disorders, psychoses, mood disorders, anxiety, developmental delays, behavior disorders, adhd, autism spectrum disorders, and learning disabilities. The medical group dentists provide comprehensive and preventive oral health care for infants, children, adolescents, and patients of lurie children's with special health care needs. Lurie children's dentistry service provides a child-centered environment and a comprehensive program emphasizing total health and prevention. The medical group dentists provide care related to infant oral healthcare with parent education; nursing and baby bottle caries; dental caries; oral trauma, anxious child; comprehensive oral healthcare for patients of the lurie children's medical specialties (including hematology, oncology, infectious disease, allergy, cardiology, neurology and services to address cleft lip and palate); and services requiring sedation and general anesthesia. Radiologists employed by the medical group staff the lurie children's department of medical imaging which serves pediatric patients in a manner aimed to help minimize radiation dose used during each procedure. The department performs more than 115,000 procedures each year, helping lurie children's specialists care for their patients with the best imaging procedures possible. All of the radiologists are board certified with subspecialty training in pediatric radiology, interventional radiology and/or neuroradiology. The medical group's physicians are members of the faculty practice plan at lurie children's, which represents the largest provider of pediatric medicaid services in illinois. Medicaid represents over 39% of its payor mix. In fy 2015, medicaid reimbursement for physician services for care to children treated by the medical group physicians was approximately $1. 9 million less than the costs associated with providing such services. The medical center through its management and the medical group's services assists lurie children's, which, owns and operates the only full-service, independent, freestanding pediatric hospital in illinois, with 288 licensed beds as well as a full range of inpatient and outpatient care and related ancillary services. This not-for-profit, tertiary care hospital, founded in 1882, provides patient care 24 hours-per-day, 7 days-per-week and provides more pediatric healthcare than any other hospital provider in illinois in nearly every pediatric medical and surgical specialty. As a major academic tertiary care medical center, lurie children's has served patients from 50 states, and 57 countries. Lurie children's is a designated level i pediatric trauma center for the city of chicago, with a level iii neonatal nursery that serves as a regional referral center in the state of illinois perinatal network. Lurie children's ability to treat the most critically ill infants in its neonatal intensive care unit ('nicu') is demonstrated by statistics for fiscal year 2015 which show that 53% of all transports into its nicu were from other level iii nurseries in metropolitan chicago. In 2015, lurie children's has been ranked as the 11th best children's hospital in the country by u. S. News & world report. In addition, lurie children's is the only pediatric hospital in illinois to be ranked by u. S. News & world report in all 10 pediatric specialties. Lurie children's is the home to the world's first pediatric center for autonomic medicine and was the first pediatric hospital in illinois to perform the berlin heart procedure, a breakthrough technology that helps children awaiting heart transplants. In fy 2015, lurie children's, through more than 620,000 patient visits, served more than 178,000 children who came from all over the state of illinois and beyond to access the more than 70 specialties offered by the lurie children's. During this period there were 535,972 outpatient visits including 353,473 visits in lincoln park (including 5,935 observation cases) including 57,902 emergency room visits and 119,326 outpatient visits at the satellite facilities. 
