---
name: "TPA Network Incorporated"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- addiction
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 363591116
homepage: "www.tpan.org"
address: |
 5050 N Broadway No 300, \nChicago, IL 60640
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To empower people living with hiv through peer-led programming. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To empower people living with hiv through peer-led programming, support services, information dissemination, and advocacy. Services are also provided to the broader community to increase hiv knowledge and sensitivity, and to reduce the risk of infection. Education and information- team (treatment education adherence management)-tpan's innovative,ten-hour, peer-led treatment education program focuses on the successful management of hiv and the prevention of secondary infection. Team provides a safe, supportive and structured environment in which participants can learn and leverage their own life experiences and be linked to a system of care. Core curriculum topics include: 'the history of hiv/aids', 'our physical bodies', 'hiv and the immune system', 'antiretroviral treatment', 'complications of the course of hiv/aids', 'mental health and substance abuse', 'hiv stigma', 'how to self-advocate for one's health and 'pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep)'. Pa anniversary:pa 25 was a special event hosted by tpan to commemorate positively aware's 25 years of publication, and underscoring the role the magazine continues to play in covering hiv treatment. Lts survivor program: the reunion project seeks to bring together long-term survivors of hiv, giving them a forum to share their concerns, experiences and views; the chicago event served as the kickoff for this on-going multi-city series of discussions. Positively aware-tpan is the publisher of the hiv/aids treatment journal positively aware-the leading not-for-profit publication serving the hiv community. The mission of positively aware is to be the premier source of unbiased information on hiv treatment, emerging drug therapies, clinical trials, and other critical information for people living with hiv, as well as their friends, families, caregivers and professionals in the field. Positively aware educates and empowers those living with hiv/ aids to advocate for their health care; editorial content is focused on accurate, up-to-date treatment information and in-depth coverage of the most important medical conferences. Positively aware is published bi-monthly and reaches 100,000 readers with each issue. 
