---
name: "The Ballet Chicago Company"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 363557501
homepage: "www.balletchicago.org"
address: |
 17 North State St, \nChicago, IL 60602
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.627846
lat: 41.882736
description: "The purpose of the ballet chicago company is to promote and encourage the art of classical ballet, to foster and develop educational dance programs, and to cultivate and perform for the widest possible audience. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Ballet chicago is an internationally recognized professional track school of ballet that creates exceptional dancers and people. Ballet chicago believes every aspiring artist deserves the opportunity to explore his or her full potential, and strives to make classical ballet training accessible to all talented students who have the desire to dance. Ballet chicago is dedicated to rigorous technical training in a culture that fosters personal growth and by teaching impeccable technique as well as fundamental life skills, their students go on to find success in dance and life. Ballet chicago founders and professional ballet dancers daniel duell and patricia blair create a powerhouse of talent. Mr. Duell is one of the world's finest ballet artistic directors, and was a long-time student of george balanchine - an artist who revolutionized classical ballet and is regarded as one of the most influential choreographers in the world of ballet. Husband and wife team, mr. Duell and ms. Blair are c
  
  ballet school: offering classical ballet lessons for all ages ranging from children through adults. Ballet chicago is an internationally recognized professional track school of ballet that creates exceptional dancers and people. Founded by daniel duell, one of the world's finest ballet artistic directors, ballet chicago believes every aspiring artist deserves the opportunity to explore his or her fullest potential, and strives to make classical ballet training accessible to all talented students who have the desire to dance. Providing one of the highest caliber curriculums in the nation, ballet chicago is dedicated to rigorous technical training in a culture that fosters personal growth. By teaching impeccable technique as well as fundamental life skills, their students go on to find success in dance and life. The school technique is based on the ballet technique established by george balanchine and offers comprehensive training for the serious student. Scholarships are available, including an expanded male scholarship program. The ballet chicago studio company, the performing element of the school's professional division presents masterpiece repertoire in theatres throughout metropolitan chicago. Ballet chicago alumni are spanning the globe and can be seen in professional companies throughout the us and europe. The balanchine repertory project offers our students the opportunity to perform the repertoire of george balanchine, the 20th century's most influential classical choreographer. Mr. Balanchine founded the school of american ballet and the new york city ballet, and is regarded as one of the most significant artistic influences in the world of ballet. A prolific artist, mr. Balanchine created more than 400 ballets during his lifetime, some 150 of which are performed regularly by ballet companies all over the world. 
