---
name: "Chicago Public Media Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 363687394
homepage: "www.chicagopublicmedia.org"
address: |
 848 E Grand Ave Navy Pier, \nChicago, IL 60611
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.61407
lat: 41.891914
description: "See schedule o"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Chicago public media serves the public interest by producing and delivering diverse, compelling content of multiple viewpoints and expression. Chicago public media is a 501(c)(3)charitable organization that serves the public interest by producing and delivering diverse, compelling content of multiple viewpoints and expression. Chicago public media broadcasts its service on three non-commercial fm radio stations: wbez 91. 5 fm in chicago, wbeq 90. 7 fm in morris, and 91. 3 fm (w217bm) in elgin, illinois; via wbez. Org and podcasts; and in live events that generate conversations across our community. In addition to local programming, chicago public media produces sound opinions, and wait, wait. . . Don't tell me! (a co-production with npr) for national distribution. Chicago public media launched a public media on-line/on-air service, vocalo, which is broadcast on wbew 89. 5 fm in chesterton, indiana; online at vocalo. Org; and syndicated on multiple stations around chicagoland. We act as the circuit that connects residents of our region to one another, to the nation and to the world in a relevant and evocative way. Through our programming, we urge our audience to recognize that they are global citizens, while also being mindful of the locality in which they reside. As such, we present stories relating to all aspects of the world, from our community bureaus located at the neighborhood level, to regional and national news programming covering all fifty states to international news and programming providing a unique perspective on world events and stories. We are a regional resource fostering full and active citizenship by creating connections and remaining present and involved broadly in community life. By interacting with our audience at the community level, we form a network of partnerships as they engage with us on stories that are relevant to them and in turn, their involvement drives our work to be deeper and more involved. We also provide an outlet and voice to those who would otherwise have none. 
