---
name: "Lookingglass Theatre Company"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363653114
homepage: "www.lookingglasstheatre.org"
address: |
 875 N Michigan Avenue Suite 1430, \nChicago, IL 60611
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62411
lat: 41.898785
description: "Presentation of live theatrical productions, education, teaching, community, & outreach programs. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Lookingglass theatre company is a national leader in the creation and presentation of innovative, cutting-edge theatrical work, and shares its theatrical development techniques with chicago's diverse community through the extensive outreach of its education and community programming. Lookingglass is known for its breath-taking theatricality, interweaving movement, circus arts, and narrative in an original and captivating way. Guided by an artistic vision centered on the core values of collaboration, transformation, and innovation, lookingglass seeks to redefine the theatrical experience and make theatre that is exhilarating, inspirational, and accessible to all. Mainstage productions: our signature approach to developing plays involves long-term dedication to the development process, presenting work in a theatre with a configurable stage and seating that can change depending on the needs of the production. To date, we have produced 63 world premieres and have received 90 jefferson awards and citations. Three mainstage productions were presented, plus an offsite production, in the past year. New play development: lookingglass propels its unique artistic vision with the creation of new work through glassworks. Lookingglass primary commitment is to produce new theatrical works. These bold, new works are created through the glassworks program. Within this program potential scripts receive considerable development through intensive workshops and readings. The significant amount of time and resources invested in glassworks has an enduring impact on the sustainability of the company and on our status as a premier institution for the development of original work. Lookingglass received the regional theatre tony award in 2011. Glassworks. Lookingglass primary commitment is to produce new theatrical works. These bold, new works are created through the glassworks program. Within this program potential scripts receive considerable development through intensive workshops and readings. The significant amount of time and resources invested in glassworks has an enduring impact on the sustainability of the company and on our status as a premier institution for the development of original work. Lookingglass received the regional theatre tony award in 2011. 
