---
name: "Lynn Sage Cancer Research Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- arts
ein: 363727715
homepage: "www.lynnsage.org"
address: |
 251 East Huron Street Suite 3-200, \nChicago, IL 60611
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62152
lat: 41.894997
description: "Dedicated to the courageous spirit of lynn sage, the foundation supports innovative contributions to the understanding, research and treatment of (continued schedule o)"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The foundation supports innovative contributions to the understanding, research, and treatment of breast cancer, in partnership with northwestern memorial hospital and the robert h. Lurie comprehensive cancer center of northwestern university. Founded in 1985, the lynn sage cancer research foundation (lscrf) has raised more than $32 million since its inception. In 1991, lscrf affiliated with northwestern memorial hospital with an initial pledge of $1 million to establish the lynn sage comprehensive breast center. Today, the lynn sage comprehensive breast center is the largest program of its kind in the state of illinois and the midwest, with at least 70,000 patient visits per year. The number of breast cancer patients seen at the lynn sage comprehensive breast center has tripled since 1992. Lscrf provides seed funding for research initiatives. For every dollar lscrf donates to breast cancer research, the robert h. Lurie comprehensive cancer center of northwestern university receives more than $38 from the national cancer institute and other granting agencies. Since 1995, the number of research projects and total amount awarded has tripled. Lscrf has funded 35 fellows in the areas of breast surgery, breast imaging, medical oncology, breast reconstruction, and obstetrics and gynecology, ensuring that there are more physicians who have specialized training in the research and treatment of breast cancer. Lscrf has provided seed funding for these major initiatives: 1. Research on chemotherapy prevention for breast cancer patients. The lurie cancer center now has a 5-year, $10 million contract for chemotherapy prevention research. 2. The lynn sage breast cancer symposium, which is now one of the largest medical education conferences in the world devoted to educating community clinicians on the latest information on breast cancer. Doctors from over 28 countries participated in the 2012 3 days conference. 3. Research on the development and use of digital mammography. Digital mammography is now accepted as a standard of care in screening for breast cancer. The lynn sage comprehensive breast center uses digital mammography exclusively. 4. Research on the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of breast cancer. In 2013, lscrf made a new $3 million, four-year pledge to continue support of critical research and education projects at northwestern. In 2016, lynn sage cancer research foundation made a $3 million dollar pledge to northwestern memorial healthcare. 
