---
name: "Heartland Health Outreach Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- addiction
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363775696
homepage: "www.heartlandalliance.org"
address: |
 208 South LaSalle Street No 1300, \nChicago, IL 60604
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Heartland health outreach's mission is to transform healthcare for the most vulnerable particularly people experiencing homelessness, mental illness or addictions, or struggling with multiple chronic illnesses improving health for all and the well-being of our community. To do this, we:-ensure access to comprehensive and integrated healthcare. -deliver high quality and effective healthcare. -provide training, support research and drive systems change that enriches our communities' capacity to improve health and impact the social determinants of health. -engage staff, volunteers, partners and donors in building a just society where resources are used wisely and compassionate, effective services yield positive outcomes. -create and advocate for innovative healthcare solutions that support the elimination of poverty, homelessness and health disparities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Heartland health outreach's mission is to transform healthcare for the most vulnerable particularly people experiencing homelessness, mental illness or addictions, or struggling with multiple chronic illnesses improving health for all and the well-being of our community. To do this, we:-ensure access to comprehensive and integrated healthcare. -deliver high quality and effective healthcare. -provide training, support research and drive systems change that enriches our communities' capacity to improve health and impact the social determinants of health. -engage staff, volunteers, partners and donors in building a just society where resources are used wisely and compassionate, effective services yield positive outcomes. -create and advocate for innovative healthcare solutions that support the elimination of poverty, homelessness and health disparities. Heartland health outreach, inc. (hho), a subsidiary of the heartland alliance for human needs and human rights, is a federally qualified health center dedicated to transforming the health care experience for chicago's many disenfranchised populations, including people who are homeless, poor, hiv positive, mentally ill, addicted, and immigrants or refugees. Founded in 1985, hho is chicago's only health care for the homeless program and as such the only provider of comprehensive health-related services for chicago's homeless population. Its integrated health care, housing, and supportive services are at the forefront of addressing many of the social determinants of health, helping to improve health outcomes and promote community stability. Annually, hho serves nearly 10,000 homeless individuals, providing more than 35,000 medical, dental, and behavioral health encounters. Services include: - primary care, dental care, and integrated mental health and substance use treatment;- street, shelter, and medical mobile outreach;- outpatient and residential, mental health, and substance use programs for people with a serious mental illness; - community-based case management, care coordination, and referrals;enrollment into benefits and entitlements; - nutritional assessment, counseling, and grocery centers; medical interpretation and translation services;- training and technical assistance for systems integration and best practices in serving dually diagnosed populations. 
