---
name: "Accelerate Institute"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 363764476
homepage: "WWW.ACCELERATEINSTITUTE.ORG"
address: |
 150 N Michigan Avenue, \nChicago, IL 606017559
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62448
lat: 41.88495
description: "Accelerate institute is an organization devoted to the betterment of urban children through education. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Accelerate institute is an organization focused on closing the achievement gap by creating high impact school leaders that accelerate student achievement. (continued in schedule o). The ryan fellowship seeks to solve the issue of under performing urban charter schools by developing an elite corps of ryan fellows through a one year fellowship in achievement accelerating leadership for the highest potential school leaders. Principals that completed the predecessor principal development program achieved an average positive 32 percent student growth in the first year of operation. The accelerator is designed as a cohort experience specifically for current principals to continue their full-time work in urban schools while getting customized advisory support to accelerate success. Principals create a customized strategic plan that allows them to map out the achievement of their vision for their school. Anchored in the strategic plan, advisory guides the work of the principal through thought partnership, accountability, and connection to expert leaders and the network of peers. The ryan award, given out by the accelerate institute, is the first major national award recognizing the amazing school leaders across america who are getting the job done. Awardees receive a $25,000 honorarium and the opportunity to be featured as a special guest lecturer in the summer program of the accelerate institute at northwestern university's kellogg school of management. These are leaders that over a number of years are doing close to two years worth of learning every year. Their stories and strategies will be profiled so that the next generation of school leaders can gain powerful inspiration and insight from their successes. The ryan award was established by the accelerate institute and made possible by the patrick g. And shirley w. Ryan foundation. 
