---
name: "Renaissance Social Services Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- social
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363900116
homepage: "www.rssichicago.org"
address: |
 333 N Oakley Blvd No 101, \nChicago, IL 60612
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Develop low-income residential facilities & address needs of individuals in these facilities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Renaissance social services (rssi) is a unique organization that connects those in need with housing that is safe, quality and affordable. After helping clients attain housing rssi provides them with comprehensive, flexible, client focused support case management services. The flexible service delivery model gives rssi clients the opportunity to live on their own with the support they need to be successful. The goal is to empower the individual or family to become as autonomous from rssi and the social service system as possible. Supportive housing outreach program works with chronically homeless individuals who also have a substance abuse and mental health disorder. In september of 2010, rssi received notification that we are one of seven recipients in the united states to receive a five year services in supportive housing grant from samhsa. This award will help us to provide housing and supportive services to an additional 150 individuals by year five of the grant. Additionally, rssi received an award from the chicago alliance to end homelessness that will provide rental support for our new clients. Our goal is to help the hardest to reach people get off the streets into a safe and supportive environment and provide these individuals with the comprehensive services that we offer. This award does not replace who we currently serve and will continue to serve. 
