---
name: "Saint Anthony Health Ministries"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- sports
- social
- greek
- poverty
ein: 363903595
homepage: "www.saintanthonyhospital.org"
address: |
 2875 West 19th Street, \nChicago, IL 60623
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.698
lat: 41.85552
description: "To support, coordinate, and improve healthcare and activities in the community area around saint anthony hospital, a related tax-exempt organization. Saint anthony health ministries is dedicated to bringing help to those in need, through compassion, healing, and hope. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To support, coordinate, and improve healthcare and activities in the community area around saint anthony hospital, a related tax-exempt organization. Saint anthony health ministries is dedicated to bringing help to those in need, through compassion, healing, and hope. Saint anthony health ministries' (sahm) philosophy, mission, and purposes include furthering the healthcare ministries at saint anthony hospital. Sahm exercises a sponsorship role over the saint anthony healthcare facilities, programs, and services intended to improve the health of individuals and of the families of the communities served. Sahm is dedicated to bringing help to those in need through compassion, healing and hope. Sahm strives to relieve misery and address its causes with christian compassion for suffering people, with special sensitivity to the vulnerable and poor. Sahm's activities are conducted in a manner consistent with the teachings and laws of the roman catholic church. Sahm adheres to the ethical and religious directives for catholic health care services as approved by the united states conference of catholic bishops, as applied by the archbishop of chicago, and as amended from time to time. 
