---
name: "Music and Dance Theater Chicago Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- family
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 363930153
homepage: "www.HarrisTheaterChicago.org"
address: |
 205 East Randolph Drive, \nChicago, IL 60601
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.6239
lat: 41.88435
description: "See schedule o"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

See schedule o
  
  partnership initiative: limited financial and administrative resources present challenges to the harris theater resident companies as they build the administrative capacity necessary for long-term sustainability. To address this need, the harris theater has developed the partnership initiative to empower non-profit companies to meet their varied artistic and institutional goals. The harris theater provides marketing, production and professional development opportunities to help each organization grow their audience, maximize existing production elements, and raise the caliber of artistic initiatives. In 2014-2015, the partnership initiative served 31 non-profit organizations. The partnership initiative encompasses the theater's services in the following areas:- rental and technical subsidy programs: approximately 68% of daily usage costs are underwritten by the theater for all non-profit renters;- additional rent and technical subsidy opportunities to offset production expenses;- theatrical, lighting, and sound equipment & the counsel of in-house technical staff;- marketing, press relations, and ticket sales support;- learning lab professional development series that provides professional development seminars, an online toolkit and targeted coaching sessions to help companies build their marketing, fundraising, governance, fiscal, and administrative capabilities;- the harris theater uses tessitura, comprehensive patron data management software which integrates development, marketing and ticketing functions for leading arts and cultural organizations. The theater is the primary licensee in a consortium of four chicago performing arts organizations who share use of the database. Fee-based membership in the harris theater tessitura consortium is available to all resident companies and peer organizations in chicago. Benefits of membership include access to training workshops and other professional development opportunities;- committee on resident companies (corc) meets quarterly to provide a forum for collective peer learning and exchange among harris theater resident companies, trustee representatives and staff. The meetings include a report on harris theater business that impacts companies' work, as well as an opportunity for companies to share upcoming events, goals, and institutional needs;- the theater presents resident companies as part of its harris theater presents evening series, family series weekend matinees, and the eat to the beat series, elevating the resident companies' presence in chicago without the financial commitment of self-producing. In addition to this financial benefit, the harris also expands resident company audiences through exposing their work to its presented series audience base of more than 15,000 patrons per season. During the 2014-2015 season, the theater presented the chicago children's choir alongside the artists of the sphinx virtuosi in a holiday concert in december 2014. Through the eat to the beat series, the theater presented the puerto rican arts alliance, hubbard street 2, and arts education partner organizations. In january 2015, the harris presented danceworks chicago as part of its family series. The theater also commissioned a new work by choreographer gustavo ramirez sansano that was performed as a part of hubbard street's spring series. 
