---
name: "Children First Fund The Chicago Public Schools Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 364094830
homepage: "www.cps.edu/About_CPS/Departments/Pages/ChildrenFirstFundCPSFoundation.aspx"
address: |
 42 West Madison Street 2nd Floor, \nChicago, IL 60602
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62935
lat: 41.882004
description: "The cff mission is to support cps' ultimate goal of ensuring that every child in every school is on track at every stage in his or her career to graduate prepared for success in postsecondary education and employment. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The children first fund: chicago public schools foundation (cff) is a non-profit organization incorporated under the illinois general not-for-profit corporation act. Cff was founded in 1996 to improve the quality of education in and increase support of the chicago public schools system, a related governmental entity. Cff directs resources towards areas of identified need, by providing mechanisms through which community, foundation and civic resources can be allocated for educational programs and initiatives in a stable, equitable and timely manner, increasing community, foundation and civic involvement with and support for the chicago public school system, and by such other means as are appropriate and consistent with the purpose of cff. Cff, established in 1996, is the 501(c)(3) non-profit organization for the chicago public schools (cps). In this capacity, cff acts as a fiscal agent for foundation, corporate, and individual contributions to cps to fund programs that supplement educational opportunities. The cff mission is to support cps' ultimate goal of ensuring that every child in every school is on track at every stage in his or her career to graduate prepared for success in postsecondary education and employment. Cff has raised over $100 million for cps schools and administrative units since its inception. Cff provides fiscal and grants management services for over 300 cps programs and schools. 
