---
name: "ALAIN LOCKE CHARTER SCHOOL"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- politics
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- arts
ein: 364182397
homepage: "www.alainlocke.org"
address: |
 150 North Michigan Avenue, \nChicago, IL 606017559
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62448
lat: 41.884937
description: "Alain locke charter school is devoted to the betterment of urban children by improving education through identifying, improving, and implementing the best practices in education. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Alain locke charter school is an organization devoted to the betterment of urban children by improving education through identifying, improving, and implementing the best practices in education. Activities include the operation of a charter school in chicago, which began classes in september 1999 and a parent resource center ('prc') which focuses on early childhood and adult education for community residents. The school serves children from pre-k through 8th grade. The prc serves parents and community members. Alain locke charter school is a wholly-owned subsidiary of accelerate institute, a related tax-exempt organization. Alain locke charter school (alain locke), named for the first african-american rhodes scholar, models absolute excellence in chicago's historically under served east garfield park neighborhood. With a learner-centered approach and a focus on preparing students for a successful college experience, the goal of alain locke is to serve as a model for innovative urban education and to produce students who are globally competitive. Offering an extended day and year-round program, alain locke provides elementary education for children in pre-kindergarten through eighth grade. Located in east garfield park on chicago's west side, the students are 98% african-american and 1% latino. At alain locke, more than 95% of the students are eligible for free or reduced lunch. Alain locke places emphasis on character education, along with a positive, disciplined, and nurturing school culture, and support for students in establishing patterns of success and becoming lifelong learners. Talented and dedicated educators are drawn to alain locke because of its commitment to providing quality professional development, as well as opportunities for leadership and to work collaboratively with colleagues. 
