---
name: "Beechtree Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 364256356
homepage: "www.alldaymontessori.org"
address: |
 1819 W 99th Street, \nChicago, IL 60643
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.66781
lat: 41.71388
description: "To operate a montessori preschool/daycare facility"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

All day montessori offers preschool and kindergarten programs for students, age two through six, designed to promote learning, independence and a sense of community in chicago's beverly neighborhood. The mission of the school is to serve children's developmental needs in ways that are consistent with the montessori educational philosophy. We are committed to providing a safe,nurturing and educational alternative for children. The primary goal of montessori education is to help children reach their full potential. Montessori is child-centered, not teacher-driven. The curriculum, under the direction of a trained teacher, allows a child to engage in learning activities of their own choice and at their own pace. Students learn through hands-on experience, making learning an exciting process of discovery that leads to concentration, motivation, self-discipline and a love of learning. All day montessori's program features activities that are designed to engage the five senses and promote all areas of development, including a child's social, emotional, physical and intellectual needs. The facility serves around 46 children ages two to six. The montessori approach to education is one that recognizes individual differences and learning styles and the classroom nurtures this diversity. Our classrooms are collaborative communities that:*place children in multi-age groups, allowing students to work together and learn from each other *develop self-esteem by promoting independence and self-sufficiency *encourage problem-solving skills and mutual respect *offer a structured environment in which there is freedom of choice *use a positive,gentle and consistent approach with each child *individualize education to meet each child's learning needs
