---
name: "PAWS Chicago"
tags:
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 364219778
homepage: "www.pawschicago.org"
address: |
 1997 N Clybourn Avenue, \nChicago, IL 60614
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.658806
lat: 41.917583
description: "Paws chicago is a national model in no kill animal welfare, offering robust adoption and spay/neuter programs. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Paws chicago's mission is to build no kill communities, starting with a no kill chicago; to end pet overpopulation; and to transform animal welfare by setting higher standards. Since its founding, the number of pets killed each year in chicago has been reduced by 77 percent. Paws chicago's lifesaving success is rooted in the no kill model, which can be replicated and scaled in any community. The foundation of all lifesaving is community engagement. By raising awareness about pet homelessness and engaging people in lifesaving efforts, we can make lasting change for animals. Paws chicago's mission-critical programs - our no kill pillars of prevention, adoption, animal health & behavior, and volunteers -- sit atop this foundation. These are the robust programs that are essential to building no kill communities. Animal health & behavior:committing to the life of each treatable pet and providing all medical treatment and behavioral enrichment needed to optimize health and wellbeing is one of the most critical elements of no kill. Because of our expert veterinary and behavior teams, we are one of the few shelters in the country that can treat and rehabilitate a large volume of sick, injured and behaviorally challenged animals. In 2014, we had a 97. 37 percent save rate, even while taking in a vulnerable population of animals. Shelter medicine: the medical center-the first stop for homeless animals when they arrive at paws-treats the most serious cases onsite. We also utilize a robust foster network for pets receiving more simple treatment. In 2014, thousands of animals were treated at our medical center-2,191 pets had upper respiratory infections alone-and 3,467 pets went into foster care. More than 41,000 vaccinations, microchips and blood tests were provided in 2014. Training & behavior enrichment: in 2014, we celebrated the opening of our training & foster care center. This 3,000 square-foot space is now home to our innovative dog training and enrichment programming and a hub to expand our geographic reach to new foster families. Through this center, our team of behavior professionals and trained volunteers provide our homeless dogs with one-on-one and group training, agility and enrichment. And it's making an impact. In 2014, 122 behaviorally challenged dogs found new loving homes. Expanding the medical center: with the progress we are seeing in chicago, healthy animals are being saved in record numbers at the city pound, which means we are seeing a sicker population of animals in need of rescue, requiring enhanced medical resources to treat. To save more lives, paws chicago is launching a major expansion of our medical center and shelter medicine program to triple our capacity to take in, isolate and treat sick and injured animals. 
