---
name: "Safe Humane"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 364366285
homepage: "www.safehumanechicago.org"
address: |
 PO Box 7342, \nChicago, IL 606807342
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.61626
lat: 41.885933
description: "Public outreach, education, charitable and scientific purposes: issues related to dogs and other companion animals in communities. Our mission is to create safe and humane communities by inspiring positive relationships between people and animals. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Public outreach, education, charitable and scientific purposes: issues related to dogs and other companion animals in communities. Our mission is to create safe and humane communities by inspiring positive relationships between people and animals. Court case dogs. The safe humane chicago (shc) court case dogs program is a first-of-its-kind in the country, and it promises to improve the welfare of dogs and engage local community members in creating safer, more humane communities throughout the country. It is a collaboration of safe humane with chicago animal care and control (cacc), law enforcement, the criminal justice system, and the animal rescue community and depends on funding from grants as well as numerous individual and business cash and non-cash donations. 'court case dogs' (and other such animals) are impounded as 'evidence' associated with the criminal court cases of their owners, whether their owners were abusive, neglectful or convicted felons. Each year hundreds of these dogs are trapped in the legal system and suffer from the unjust and incorrect perception that they are 'damaged goods. ' in fact, they are dogs who have 'done the time but not the crime'. The court case dog program is a first step toward justice for these animals. What began in january 2010 as a partnership between shc, best friends animal society and cacc to advocate for, support and re-home these animals is now a thriving program managed by safe humane with funding from multiple and diverse sources. Court case dogs are given a second chance at a great life, thanks to a long line of heroes: police; animal control officers; the justice system; court advocates; cacc; veterinarians; shc volunteers, professional dog trainers and behavior consultants; partnering rescue groups; and the families that welcome them into their homes. Shc offers them lifetime behavioral support in the chicago area, free of charge to their fosters or owners. Court case dogs deservedly beat the odds. Whereas about 2% of these dogs made it out of impoundment alive before the program began, the program is saving about 70% of them now. During its first five years ending 12-31-2014, the program has saved 618 dogs, 524 of whom have been adopted and 2 of whom are in sanctuary. With 12 dogs in the program at cacc as of 12-31-2014, 606 have been transferred to 101 partner rescue groups for rehoming. Their average length of stay at cacc (part of which they were not yet owned by cacc because of ongoing legal matters) is now just 16% of the average when the program started: a change from an average of 256 days at cacc to an average 41 days by the end of 2014. Keep in mind that length of stay at cacc is affected by many different actions, decisions and communication, legal constraints, shelter and adopter perceptions, and available resources of a village of professionals, staff, community members and organizations, including the following: offenders / owners at time of impoundment; laws and policies; police; cacc; prosecutors; judges; available veterinary, behavioral, transportation and homing resources; inter-agency communications; social networking; and marketing, all of which is not under the control of any one organization but is monitored by shc and part of our extensive network. Shc is also pleased to report that court case dogs left cacc for rescue or home in 2014 in only 17 days on average after they became city property. In addition, all the court case dogs give back to our communities by being model companions, service dogs, therapy dogs, ambassador dogs, sports stars, and demonstration dogs, among others. You can read their stories on our website (http://safehumanechicago. Org) and on social media. All of this requires recruiting, training, managing and supporting community volunteers, and our staff devotes considerable resources to this. The reason is not difficult to understand. Numerous dedicated volunteers are needed for the program's successes, which can be measured in numbers of court case dogs saved and successfully homed, without returns; the decrease in time they are impounded or fostered; and successful rehoming. In 2014, 96 volunteers donated 3,865. 50 hours to court case dog program activities; between 2010 and 2014, more than 350 volunteers gave 13,517. 75 hours to the court case dogs. But that's not all. Court case dogs are also included in the playgroups that shc manages at cacc, programming reported in line 4d of part iii. In 2014, 122 volunteers devoted 3,203. 75 hours in playgroups with court case and other cacc dogs. Including all activities with the court case dogs at cacc in 2014, 196 volunteers donated 7,554. 25 hours to the program. Since the program started, some 500 individual volunteers have donated 21,860. 75 hours. Demographics of program beneficiaries: a majority of the animal victims were helped by the court case dog program are, of course, dogs and of those, approximately 70% are perceived to be pit-bull types. A handful of cats are beginning to be saved as well. But four-legged animals are not the only ones who benefit. The court case dog program brings numerous community members together to help animals as well as people and their families; and the program serves as a center and a foundation for all the other safe humane programs: youth leaders, lifetime bonds, collaborative justice and community outreach efforts. 
