---
name: "CEDA Community Development Fund"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 364337956
homepage: "WWW.CEDAORG.NET"
address: |
 567 W Lake Street Suite 1200, \nChicago, IL 60661
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.642525
lat: 41.8857
description: "Ceda community development fund's mission is to create, retain and develop small business and ecomonic institutions that improve the economic stability and. . . See sch o"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Ceda community development fund's mission is to create, retain and develop small business and economic institutions that improve the economic stability and independence of the community. Ceda community development fund aims to increase the income of its residents to increase job opportunities for the underemployed and unemployed to more equally distribute economic resources, social services, technical assistance. Ceda community development fund also provides financial literacy training that encourages and empowers low-income individuals and families toward positive action that meets basic human needs and helps them become self-sufficient. Ceda community development fund is currently inactive and is in the process of restarting its program service activities. Ceda community development fund's mission is to create, retain and develop small business and economic institutions that improve the economic stability and independence of the community. Ceda community development fund aims to increase the income of its residents to increase job opportunities for the underemployed and unemployed to more equally distribute economic resources, social services, and technical assistance. Ceda community development fund also provides financial literacy training that encourages and empowers low-income individuals and families toward positive action that meets basic human needs and helps them become self-sufficient. The ceda community development fund is currently inactive and is in the process of restarting its program service activities. 
