---
name: "Columbia College Chicago"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 366112087
homepage: "www.colum.edu"
address: |
 600 South Michigan Ave, \nChicago, IL 60605
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62417
lat: 41.87443
description: "The organization's mission is to educate students for creative occupations in diverse fields of the arts and media. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The organization's mission is to educate students for creative occupations in diverse fields of the arts and media. Columbia college chicago (the college) is a fully accredited not-for-profit private college with more than 120 academic programs and over 9,000 students. Columbia college chicago awards undergraduate bachelor of arts, bachelor of fine arts and bachelor of music degrees, along with graduate master of arts, masters of arts management, masters of fine art and masters of arts in teaching degrees. The college is one of the largest and most diverse private arts and media colleges in the nation. The college's intent is to educate students who will communicate creatively and shape public perception of issues and events and who will author the culture of their times. The college had 8,608 students enrolled in its undergraduate programs and 353 students enrolled in its graduate programs. The undergraduate programs are offered in three schools within the college; the school of fine and performing arts; the school of liberal arts & sciences; and the school of media arts. Columbia college chicago consists of three schools: fine and performing arts, liberal arts and sciences and media arts. In fall 2015, the school of fine and performing arts had an undergraduate enrollment of 4,531 and a graduate enrollment of 172. The school of liberal arts and sciences had an undergraduate enrollment of 558 and a graduate enrollment of 108. The school of media arts had an undergraduate enrollment of 3,366 and a graduate enrollment of 72. There were 154 students who did not have an official department. In the 2014-2015 academic year, the college granted 2,127 degrees. The school of fine and performing arts granted 1,038 degrees (959 were undergraduate), the school of liberal arts and sciences granted 206 degrees (146 were undergraduate), and the school of media arts granted 847 degrees (804 were undergraduate). Additionally, 36 degrees were granted to undergraduate students without enrollment in a specific school. There are 20 departments with undergraduate programs, and 9 departments with graduate programs. 
