---
name: "MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- gender
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- arts
ein: 366154098
homepage: "www.mcachicago.org"
address: |
 220 East Chicago Avenue, \nChicago, IL 606112643
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.62302
lat: 41.89676
description: "Enhance appreciation of contemporary art through education, programming and exhibitions (see statement on part iii line 1). "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mca is an innovative and compelling center of contemporary art where the public can directly experience the work and ideas of living artists, and understand the historical, social and cultural context of the art of our time. The museum boldly interweaves exhibitions, performances, collections, and educational programs to excite, challenge, and illuminate our visitors and to provide insight into the creative process. The mca aspires to engage a broad and diverse audience, create a sense of community and be a place for contemplation, stimulation, and discussion about contemporary art and culture. (4a) exhibitions: 1) doris salcedo (feb 21-may 24, 2015). The mca presented the first retrospective of the work of renowned sculptor doris salcedo (colombian, b. 1958). Salcedo gained prominence in the 1990s for her fusion of postminimalist forms with sociopolitical concerns. Salcedo's work is deeply rooted in her country's social and political landscape, including its long history of civil conflicts. 2) david bowie is (sep 23, 2014-jan 4, 2015) presents the first retrospective of the extraordinary career of david bowie-one of the most pioneering and influential performers of our time. More than 400 objects, most from the david bowie archive-including handwritten lyrics, original costumes, photography, set designs, album artwork, and rare performance material-are brought together for the first time. 3) unbound: contemporary art after frida kahlo (may 3-oct 5, 2014). Frida kahlo is one of the most famous artists in the world. Her reputation and persona have grown immensely since her death in 1954, yet posthumously she has been turned into a stereotype of latin american art. This predicament, along with her celebrity status, often overshadows the confrontational and boldly transgressive nature of her paintings, and ultimately undermines the revolutionary intent of her work. Her work subverted accepted notions of gender, sexuality, social class, and ethnicity, and was prophetic in anticipating the broader cultural concerns-postcolonialism, feminism, civil rights, multiculturalism, and globalization-that reached a crescendo in the 1960s and continue to be relevant today. Artist in residence: 4) goshka macuga residency (spring 2013-14). Following her critically acclaimed solo exhibition at mca chicago, polish-born, london-based artist goshka macuga returned to chicago to embark on a yearlong project as artist in residence. Macuga's mca exhibition, the first ever survey of her work, emphasized the investigative quality of her artistic practice. Visual and written records of the artist's many adventures and encounters were made accessible to the public, both on-site at the museum and online, as her journey moved to its conclusion-the eventual shape or form of which was determined in the second half of the residency. Ascendant artist: 5) anne collier (nov 22, 2014-mar 8, 2015) was the photographer's first major exhibition, tracing her career from 2002 to the present. Encompassing around forty works, the exhibition presented several themes that dominated collier's (american, b. 1970) practice during the past decade, including pop psychology, the clichés and conventions of commercial photography, autobiography, and the act of looking or seeing. These recurring themes provided insights into pressing issues photographers often face today, especially an artist working in the powerful wake of feminism. 6) simon starling: metamorphology (jun 7-nov 2, 2014). Since emerging from the glasgow art scene in the early 1990s, simon starling (british, b. 1967) has established himself as one of the leading artists of his generation, working in a wide variety of media (film, installation, photography) to interrogate the histories of art and design, scientific discoveries, and global economic and ecological issues, among other subjects. The recipient of the 2005 turner prize, starling has had major exhibitions in kunsthalles and museums throughout the world, and his work can be found in the collections of some of the world's leading art institutions; yet, surprisingly, he has never been the subject of a survey in a major american museum-until now. Bmo harris bank chicago works: 7) sarah and joseph belknap (oct 11, 2014-feb 24, 2015). Sarah and joseph belknap, long-time collaborators, move freely between sculpture, photography, video, and performance in their highly inquisitive artistic practice. Reflecting on our place in the cosmos, their work draws inspiration from the history of science, popular imagination, and their shared sense of wonder. Mca dna: 8) alexander calder (oct 12, 2013-aug 9, 2015) traced the development of the artist over a 50-year career, in particular, his exploration of how art can move in response to its physical environment. The exhibition presented examples of calder's (american, 1898-1976), mobiles, stabiles, and works on paper dating from the 1920s to the 1970s. 9) richard hunt (dec 18, 2014-may 17, 2015). Richard hunt (american, b. 1935), a longtime resident of chicago and one of the city's most accomplished artists, has contributed significantly to the history of abstract sculpture. Hunt turned eighty in 2015, and the mca celebrated his life and artistic achievements with exhibition of his sculptures and drawings, dating from the 1950s through the 1990s. These works reflect the development of hunt's style-from smaller objects made of welded scrap materials to monumentally scaled metal sculptures. Mca screen: 10) clemens von wedemeyer (feb 24-jul 26, 2015). The moving-image installations of clemens von wedemeyer (german, b. 1974) blur the line between film and fine art to produce rigorously analytical works. The exhibition features muster (rushes) (2012), an hd video simultaneously projected on two of three screens, which probes the merits and limits of historical reconstruction. Each narrative takes place at a former benedictine monastery in germany that functioned as a concentration camp during the nazi era, a reformatory for girls, and later a psychiatric clinic. Taken together, they offer complex, misleading, and violent incarnations of german history and culture. 11) leslie hewitt in collaboration with bradford young (may 17-aug 31, 2014). The two-channel video installation untitled (structures) by leslie hewitt (american, b. 1977) and bradford young (american, b. 1977) is comprised of a series of silent vignettes, filmed at sites connected to the civil rights movement and the struggle for racial equality in the united states. Many of the buildings and urban landscapes seem unremarkable today, the signs of their past significance at risk of being forgotten. Mca chicago plaza project: 12) yinka shonibare, mbe (jun 16-nov 10, 2014). London-based artist yinka shonibare, mbe (british, b. 1962) has spent his life in england and nigeria-two countries with a long, complex relationship. Born in england, but raised in lagos in the wake of nigeria's independence, shonibare is influenced by his personal experiences in a newly liberated nation and its former colonial ruler. His works explore and question the construction of cultural and national identity in a globalized society. Shonibare's mca plaza installation included three of his new wind sculptures. Nearly 20 feet high, each sculpture captures the movement of a billowing bolt of fabric. Their design was inspired by the sails of ships whose patterns derived from dutch wax fabrics. Permanent collection: 13) body doubles (oct 25, 2014-apr 19, 2015) raised complex questions about the relationship between the body and identity, and explored the myriad ways that artists have used the body to challenge boundaries-between the individual and society, male and female, interior and exterior, normal and transgressive. As the plurality of the exhibition's title suggests, body doubles recognized that the body is not fixed but rather in a perpetual state of flux and transformation. 
