---
name: "Korean War Veterans National Museum & Library"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- nature
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 371369481
homepage: "www.kwnm.org"
address: |
 47 West Division Street, \nChicago, IL 60610
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.63017
lat: 41.903915
description: "The mission of the korean war national museum (kwnm) seeks to honor the veterans of the korean war by educating citizens and future generations, preserving the legacy and history, and celebrating 'the forgotten victory'. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of the kwnm is to establish a museum and library to preserve a record of the united states participation in the korean war, to educate and disseminate information to the general public about the korean war era and to promote friendship among veterans of the conflict. The museum reopened its doors in 2009 at the denis j. Healy freedom center in springfield, il. This 10,000-square-foot facility has an interactive and professionally developed exhibit of items, artifacts, weapons, art, photographs and materials. The freedom center is open with published hours and free admission. Visitors are encouraged to ask questions and support the operations with monetary donations. The museum preserves a record of the united states participation in the korean war, educates and disseminates information to the general public about the korean war era, and promotes friendship among veterans of that conflict. In addition, the museum aids veterans, their families, and scholars with research about the korean war. Korean war national museum, library and cultural center intends to be a world-class museum and state of the art facility located in the heart of new york city. Once completed, the mission of the museum will be to honor the korean war veterans from the 22 participating united nations member countries, educate future generations, preserve the history and celebrate the tremendous success of the post-war republic of korea. It aims to not only tell the compelling story of the war itself but to become a center for education, cultural exchange and discussion. The museum will integrate artifacts and exhibits that are currently housed in the denis j. Healy freedom center. The library will be home to historic records and the core of the effort to preserve original documents and artifacts that were collected from the war. The cultural center will be open to the public and a key component of the museum's efforts to provide a dynamic and constantly evolving facility where the community can come together to learn about the korean history and culture. The goal of the korean war national museum, library and cultural center is to create a space-utilization plan that maximizes the space for a dynamic and interactive experience, utilizing touch-screen digital exhibits, interactive exhibits and displays, as well as thought and discussion-provoking programs, events and temporary exhibits. 
