---
name: "Family Business Network USA"
tags:
- education
- professional
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- arts
ein: 453127316
homepage: "www.fbn-na.org"
address: |
 3501 N Southport Avenue No 449, \nChicago, IL 60657
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "By families for families for successful family businessses"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Fbn was established to educate owners and employees of family businesses, and thereby promote the success and sustainability of those family businesses and their communities. Fbn educates and connects families in business by organizing and participating in seminars and events, by providing training materials on a wide array of topics to its members, and by providing members with a forum to ask questions and trade ideas. Fbn carries out its educational activities in collaboration with loyola university in chicago, illinois, kennesaw state university in kennesaw, georgia, and baruch college in new york, new york. Fbn is one of 30 chapters of the family business network-international, an international not-for-profit network. Each chapter organizes its own programs and events for education, training and the exchange of ideas under the motto 'by families for families. ' the organization is membership based. To achieve its goal of educating owners and employees of family businesses, fbn and its members provide instruction to individuals by creating and disseminating training materials addressing issues commonly faced by family businesses. Because many issues that arise in the course of running a business present unique challenges to family businesses, the materials and the forum for discussion provided by fbn can be invaluable resources. The majority of fbn's presenters are members who speak at events either at no charge or for travel expenses, although some materials are provided by experts in family businesses and their governance. Fbn's programs are open to both members and non-members, although the number of programs a non-member may attend each year is limited. Programs typically run at break-even or a small loss. Membership benefits include:o invitations to seminars and webinars with peers;o peer group participation and discussion facilitated by fbn;o regional gatherings;o webinar series accessible to members;o access to the next generation network;o access to next generation internships; ando ability to draw upon the experience of a national network of successful family businesses. 
