---
name: "Center on Halsted"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- gender
- social
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 510178807
homepage: "www.centeronhalsted.org"
address: |
 3656 North Halsted, \nChicago, IL 60613
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: -87.64953
lat: 41.948364
description: "Center on halsted (coh) advances community and secures the health and well-being of the lgbtq people of chicagoland. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Center on halsted advances community and secures the health and well-being of the lgbtq people of chicagoland. Hiv services: state of illinois aids/hiv & std hotline: for a total of 21 years, center on halsted has operated the state of illinois aids/hiv & std hotline, a free and anonymous service operating daily from 8:00 am to 10:00 pm. The hotline offers individualized risk assessments, comprehensive referrals to testing, linkage to care and prep, and the latest information about hiv/aids and stds in english and spanish to callers from all over the united states and even from abroad. With a database of more than 2,900 statewide referral services, health educators provide callers with a wealth of information regarding local health, social and support services. In fy15 we answered more than 8,284 calls. Hiv testing and prevention: center on halsted launched its highly successful hiv testing and prevention program in may 2008. In fy15, we performed 3,900 tests (1. 4% positivity rate overall) reaching men who have sex with men (msm), high risk heterosexual (hrh), male to female and spanish-speaking persons. The program provides free, rapid, and confidential hiv testing, counseling and referrals to clients on an appointment or walk-in basis. Clients who test positive for hiv, or who need additional support services, are actively linked to internal or external providers. Hiv support services: center on halsted offers msm, male to female, hiv+, and spanish-speaking individuals who come through our testing program up to eight hours of free, short-term counseling/supportive case management. This helps newly diagnosed individuals acquire a deeper understanding of their status and transmission risks, and lessens their anxiety. It has also proven to be an effective, safe opportunity for the health educator to elicit information about sexual and needle-sharing partners as well as to follow up on referrals to primary care. In fy15, 24 hiv+, high risk hiv negative and potentially high risk negative clients were provided with 55 hours of individual, couples or group counseling. Clients wanting more long-term mental health treatment can enroll in center on halsted's behavioral health services, where hiv+ clients are eligible for low-cost or free therapy through our ryan white part a grant. Through the testing and outreach of the department of hiv/aids & std services at center on halsted, health educators distributed in fy15 104,372 male/insertive condoms, 4,543 female/receptive condoms, 34,480 lubricant packets, and 26,727 hotline/hiv testing bilingual wallet cards. Clinical health educators also offer a weekly hiv+ support group. The model for the groups was developed after a thorough review of group services already available on chicago's north side. Because many groups in our area are open and peer-led, we developed a closed, therapist-facilitated model as an alternative. Group topics include disclosure of hiv status, medication, side effects, symptoms of hiv disease, dating, relationships, sex, safer sex, confidentiality, availability of medical and social services, aging, and substance use. In fy15, 67 unduplicated hiv+ clients were served through four 10-week groups representing 338 unit of service. 
