---
name: "American Planning Association"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 521134021
homepage: "www.planning.org"
address: |
 205 N Michigan Avenue No 1200, \nChicago, IL 60601
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The american planning association (apa) provides leadership in the development of vital communities by advocating excellence in community planning, promoting education and citizen empowerment and providing the tools and support necessary to meet the challenges of growth and change. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american planning association (apa) provides leadership in the development of vital communities by advocating excellence in community planning, promoting education and citizen empowerment and providing the tools and support necessary to meet the challenges of growth and change. Memberships & educational resources: see schedule o for program service descriptionapa is an education not-for-profit and several of our educational services are provided free of charge. Apa membership is voluntary and open to any individual interested in the field of planning. Our monthly magazine focuses on information about trends, current planning practices, new approaches, reviews of books, reports, and events in both private and public sectors. The journal of the american planning association is published quarterly to report on research, new thoughts, and current literature. It is edited independently through a university- based editorial team and has a worldwide subscription list. The zoning practice periodical is published quarterly and helps guide those who write and administer development codes; monitors all the latest trends in local land-use controls; and brings the reader current news and ordinance excerpts. Each quarter apa's planning advisory service (pas) publishes a new pas report providing authoritative guidance on current issues and innovative practices. Apa celebrates excellence in planning through our great places in america program. Annually, apa recognizes a total of 30 great neighborhoods, streets, and public spaces of exceptional character, quality, and planning. The neighborhoods, streets, and public spaces are suggested by residents or visitors. Apa's planners press publishes titles of interest to practitioners, researchers, and the general public, with the aim of stimulating readers, creating an engaged citizenry, and influencing policy development by telling the many stories of planning. Select titles are produced in both paper and digital formats. Apa's planners book service distributes planners press books and planning advisory service reports, all tailored to planners' needs, interests, jobs, and careers. Titles are sold to consumers, bookstores and online retailers. The national planning conference brings planners, planning commissioners, elected officials, educators, allied professionals, students and engaged citizens together in an assembly of sessions, workshops, and networking opportunities to gain knowledge of current community challenges and initiatives in the field of planning. The american institute of certified planners' (aicp) certification maintenance program helps certified planners gain the knowledge and skills they need to remain current in the practice of planning. Community planning assistance teams (cpats) are a key aicp initiative. Through this program, a multidisciplinary team of expert planning professionals is paired with community members, key stakeholders, and relevant decision makers in a place-based initiative to foster community education, engagement, and empowerment. Apa also produces audio conferences, webinars, training workshops, streaming videos and audio recordings to promote education about communities and planning. 
