---
name: "Pathways Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 522456469
homepage: "WWW.PATHWAYS.ORG"
address: |
 150 North Michigan Ave, \nChicago, IL 606017559
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Since 1985, pathways has used outcome-based research and multimedia as tools to promote each child's fullest inclusion. We strive to empower health professionals and parents with knowledge of the benefit of early detection and early intervention for children's sensory, motor, and communication development. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Pathways foundation has two primary programs. Our chicago office is dedicated to raising awareness and promoting the benefits of early detection and early therapy for children who have a motor, sensory, or communication delay. (continued in schedule o)
  
  pathways center, our glenview outpatient clinic, provided 7,757 hours of physical, occupational and speech therapy services to 244 children during fiscal year 2015. Our center provided assessment and/or intervention services to 83 new children and performed 131 evaluations for new and existing clients during the year. In addition to providing high quality individual rehabilitation therapy services for approximately 200 clients/week, our center developed and ran three specialized group programs open to internal and external clients. Program initiatives this year included a weekly summer therapeutic playgroup, food explorers for preschool children with food aversions designed to increase their tolerance using a multisensory treatment approach. Pathways training camp focused on fitness and sports skill training for children with coordination, endurance and balance difficulties that limited their success playing sports with their peers. Our center also introduced brain boss, a group for third and fourth grade children focused on developing executive function skills including planning, organizing and emotional regulation. Therapists provided parents with feedback and home activity suggestions at the end of each session. Participants in the specialty programs reported a high degree of client satisfaction. In december, our center staff hosted a respite evening for 44 clients and siblings as a holiday gift to our client families. Our center is recognized as a leader in the pediatric therapy community and responded to many requests for observational visits. In the 2015 fiscal year, our center staff hosted educational visits for 7 medical residents from university of chicago (28 hours) to broaden their knowledge of pediatric therapy and promote early detection and referral for services. Our center provided hands-on learning experiences for 41 college/high school students (total of 1,228. 50 volunteer/observation hours). Many of these student volunteers were actively exploring pediatric therapy as a career option and benefited greatly from the experience gained working directly with the therapists and clients at our center. Staff acted as clinical instructors for 5 physical, occupational and speech-language pathology graduate students completing 8-12 week clinical affiliations. Our center therapists participated in 4 open house events for families with children with special needs at kohl children's museum and several child health fairs to answer parents' questions about their children's development. Other community outreach projects included the development of two free educational webinars for parents and early childhood educators/day care providers to learn more about tummy time tips and sensory integration. Our center staff was invited to present to medical residents at various local hospitals, including a series of 7 lectures on various developmental topics to uic medical residents. Curriculum for free community based wellness classes for infants up to 12 months of age were developed and staff piloted several classes with positive reviews from parents. Therapy staff also provided professional expertise during the development of many educational brochures, videos, milestone checklists and teaching materials on a variety of developmental topics to assist parents to track and promote their child's development. Our website and social media allowed these resources to be shared with parents, teachers and health professionals across the country and beyond. Our center continued to provide regular in-house mentoring, journal club and continuing education for our therapy staff. We also sponsored continuing education courses open to community therapists. Last year, our center offered three 2-3 day courses taught by well known instructors: building the brain: a neurological approach to assessment and treatment (18 participants); contemporary ndt treatment of the baby and the young child (25 participants) and therapeutic evaluation and treatment of toe walking (25 participants). These courses presented the latest in intervention techniques and research findings for the pediatric population. Additionally during this fiscal year, our center supported 2 staff therapists to complete an intensive training program leading towards certification in neuro-developmental treatment of individuals with cerebral palsy or other neuromotor disorders. Fiscal year 2015 proved to be a year of growth, accomplishments and broad community outreach to promote early detection of developmental differences and to empower parents to seek professional services to help their children achieve their potential. 
