---
name: "Network of Executive Women Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- gender
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 760677933
homepage: "www.newonline.org"
address: |
 PO Box 64417, \nChicago, IL 60664
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Advance women, grow business & transform our industry's workplace through the power of community. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To advance women, grow business and transform our industry's workplace through the power of community. In 2001 a small group of industry leaders formed the network of executive women. Their goal: increasing leadership opportunities for women in the retail and consumer goods industry. By the end of 2015, the network had grown into a powerful community of 9,677 members, 723 companies, 98 partner companies and 20 regions across north america. The retail and consumer goods workforce is getting more diverse - and so is the network of executive women. Our inclusion initiative is on a mission to create a network that's 10 percent men, 20 percent new generation and 30 percent multicultural. In 2015, our inclusion committee, headed by ken charles of general mills, helped ensure that diversity was embedded in every aspect of new - from leadership to events, from outreach to content - reflecting the diverse communities we serve, including men, millennials, women of color and the lgbt community. 2015 was a year of transformation for the network of executive women. It started in january at the fmi midwinter executive conference in miami, where we enrolled senior industry leaders in our 'it's time' movement for women's leadership and workplace change. Our fresh start included a new mission, new learning programs, a new inclusion initiative and a bold new vision: a workplace with no limits. The network's community grew 8. 6 percent in 2015 - thousands more participated in new events and programs industrywide. But new is not satisfied with incremental growth - in 2015 we laid the groundwork for our biggest expansion ever, an ambitious plan to double our membership by 2020. In 2015 the network unveiled the groundbreaking new career accelerator model, the foundation for a powerful pyramid of innovative career-building programs. Created in partnership with the center for creative leadership, the model is based on surveys with more than 1,200 industry members and outlines the 13 critical success factors specific to women leaders in retail and consumer goods. The career accelerator model - and the new career programs, events, webinars and content based on it - provide a strong formula for personal and organizational growth. The network's 98 corporate partners have millions of employees and billions in sales. They also have a proven commitment to women's leadership and workplace change. New partners represent nearly 90 percent of our membership. And their leaders are our leaders, donating their time to serve as officers, board members, ambassadors, committee leads and volunteers. The financial contributions of our corporate partners make our work possible, but it is their passion that really fuels our network. Their belief in the network and its mission is one of our most valuable assets. The network's message of workplace transformation reached hundreds of thousands of people throughout the industry through special content, earned and paid media, websites, outbound marketing, apps, social media and video. Launched in january, our 'it's time' campaign for women's leadership made millions of impressions. It included trade advertising, an interactive engagement website and a special 24-page magazine distributed with progressive grocer. New content included our 'accelerators' report on women's leadership and more than 50 blogs written by career experts and industry leaders. New social media followers increased 67 percent to more than 29,000 followers - another 22,000 supporters joined the conversation on our regions' social media accounts. In 2015, new income grew 10 percent to an all-time high of nearly $6. 4 million. Income came from partnerships (44 percent), conferences (33 percent) and regional events and sponsorships (15 percent). New's board approved the investment of reserve funds to expand learning programs. The network's volunteer board is made up of talented and passionate women and men from some of the largest organizations in the retail, consumer goods and services industry. Their leadership is driving change in their own organizations - and the entire industry. Their hard work and dedication to new's mission proves what elizabeth andrew said: 'volunteers don't necessarily have the time - they just have the heart. 'new learning programs transformed organizations by the hundreds and developed leaders by the thousands in 2015. Our new leadership academy webinars trained many new members. And our diverse blogging community delivered frank opinions and valuable career advice to thousands. In 2015, we further advanced our ambitious new learning initiatives, including the new career accelerator model and workshops, new executive institute for emerging senior executives, and new rising stars, a development program for mid-level leaders. 
