---
name: "New Schools for Chicago"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- family
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 830399727
homepage: "www.newschoolsnow.org"
address: |
 21 S Clark Street Suite 4301, \nChicago, IL 60603
state: "IL"
city: "Chicago"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Nsc is working to support schools of choice in chicago through targeted programs to schools, leaders, & through an environment that allows schools to thrive. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

New schools for chicago (nsc) is a venture philanthropy organization that has invested in the start-up of autonomous chicago public schools. Nsc was established by chicago's business and civic leadership to support renaissance 2010, an initiative to create 100 new public schools of choice in the city of chicago's most challenged communities. In its first ten years, nsc raised money, supported the opening of new schools, made grants to fund the start-up of schools and hosted the new schools expo for parents, students and community members. Shifting from new school growth to ensuring high quality performance in chicago public schools (cps), nsc, during fiscal year 2015, redirected its strategic focus. While many of the schools of choice are doing well, some are not as high quality as anticipated. Nsc is now working to support the performance of these schools through targeted programs to schools and school leaders as well as by fostering an environment that allows these schools to thrive. School quality - nsc is offering school improvement grants to schools of choice to improve their academic outcomes in sustainable ways. Nsc will leverage the technical, business and operational expertise from strategic partners to assist the schools which win the grants. In addition, nsc is working closely with cps, education advocacy partners, and school management organizations to ensure there are clear guidelines for the performance of schools and to transition operations over to a high performing management organization in an effort to 'restart' the school if neccessary. Nsc will coordinate with cps and partners to ensure families enroll their children in higher performing options. 
