---
name: "WILD EARTH SOCIETY INCORPORATED DBA WILDLANDS NETWORK"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 161402497
homepage: "N/A"
address: |
 1402 3rd Ave, \nSeattle, WA 98101
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Wildlife research, conservation, and education. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The wild earth society, incorporated, d/b/a wildlands network, is a vermont corporation with its headquarters located in seattle, washington. Wildlands network's mission is to reconnect nature across north america, and to inspire similar efforts worldwide. We focus on the protection and creation of large-scale wildlife corridors to enable wide-ranging wildlife to adapt to a changing climate and to facilitate the restoration of apex predators. And we do this through collaborations of networked science, allies, partners and resources to reduce duplicative efforts and address the urgency facing our planet. Using our science, networks and collaboratives we are creating landscapes that sustain life and provide enough room to roam(c)to protect wildlife and people for the long-term. This includes safe passage on private lands, highway overpasses and underpasses to reduce wildlife-vehicle collisions, protecting core habitat areas through easements or purchase, and reintroducing species (keyston
  
  habitat connectivity analysis: our work to scientifically identify priority wildlife corridors continues through a collaborative connectivity analysis for the south atlantic region. We're also partnering with the usgs southeast climate science center to look at connectivity priorities from texas to florida and up to west virginia. Using a network of wildlife camera traps, we have documented the importance of the imperiled northeast cape fear river corridor that wraps around the outskirts of wilmington, n. C. , threatened by the expansion of the titan cement plant. Campaign to protect priority western landscapes: wildlands network adopt your wildlife corridor initiative identified 20 priority regions in need of protection within the western wildway. These regions are branded through interactive maps that show protections in progress and describe actions in which corridor adopters can help achieve additional protections. Together with our partners, well coordinate grassroots advocacy with various administrative opportunities, such as the national forest planning process. Connectivity policy: our staff lead connectivity policy worked with senior staff at the department of interior (doi) to integrate a landscape of connectivity strategy as a climate change mitigation measure into the presidents climate action plan for climate preparedness and resilience. We provided maps and key biodiversity data layers to the doi and the white house to advance this measure. National monument designation: we are part of the regional campaign and two political strategy groups in washington d. C. That are working with the administration and coordinating field efforts to designate new national monuments. Our efforts are focused on the greater canyonlands and grand canyon watershed as national monuments. These are both part of our top 20 priority corridors in the western wildway, functioning as both important core habitats and areas through which predators and other species can connect with other core habitats and areas. We also bring a specific focus on the importance of connectivity to the larger conservation community that is focused on national monument designation. Carnivore recovery: effective and frequent predators of large mammals are gone from the east and the balance, health and resilience of a fragmented landscape has been compromised. We convened the first ever carnivore summit and developed strategize phase i of a collaborative restoration plan for these important species, including garnering support for carnivore recovery among outdoors people, land and wildlife management agencies, land owners and wildlife advocates. 
