---
name: "Water First International"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 202601035
homepage: "www.Water1st.org"
address: |
 1904 3rd Avenue No 1012, \nSeattle, WA 98101
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Water 1st's mission is to unite people to end the global water and sanitation crisis. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Water 1st's mission is to enable the world's poorest people to implement and sustain community-managed projects integrating clean water supply, sanitation and hygiene education. Water 1st unites people to fight the global water and sanitation crisis . We believe this worldwide, silent catastrophe will be solved when we build a community of concerned individuals, and mobilize them to take simple, effective actions. In 2015, the organization completed 357 projects serving 18,005 people. Every project incorporates access to water and toilets, hygiene education, and community development. In oromia, ethiopia, the organization completed the funding of the dawo kara project, which will serve 3,750 people. The project was scheduled to be completed by december, but equipment procurement issues delayed actual completion until february 2016. The organization also initiated funding of the dima jeliwan project in 2015, which is scheduled to be completed in 2017 and will serve 3,800 people. In bangladesh, 350 water systems serving 15,991 people in urban slum settlements in dhaka, chittagong, and khulna were completed. In the rural lempira communities of los limones, valladolid, san pedrito, corral piedra, san miguel, jagua, and san sebastian, honduras, 2,014 people have piped water and toilets at every household. Additionally, the organization's local honduran partner initiated eight additional projects that will be completed in 2016. As of december 2015, the water first community contributed over $13 million to support 1,562 projects serving 141,270 people. The organization's goal is to maximize cost-effectiveness by leveraging local resources. In the urban slums of dhaka, chittagong, and khulna, bangladesh, for example, beneficiaries pay 100 percent of the capital costs of their projects through two-year loans. The loans are repaid to the local non-governmental organization, who is the recipient of water first's grants. Repaid loan funds are revolved and used for additional water and sanitation projects and create a sustainable source of funds for water first's bangladesh partner. In honduras and ethiopia, beneficiaries and the local government contribute cash, labor, and local materials, which are valued at up to 25 percent of the total project cost. The organization's honduras partner now has the capacity to provide assistance for water system construction, expansion, and repair on a loan basis, further leveraging local resources. 
