---
name: "PACIFIC NORTHWEST PARKOUR ASSOCIATION"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- arts
ein: 261856160
homepage: "http://parkourvisions.org"
address: |
 1210 W Nickerson St, \nSeattle, WA 98119
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Parkour visions is a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting the positive benefits of parkour through teaching, design, and advocacy"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Parkour visions is a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting the positive benefits of parkour through teaching, design, and advocacy
  
  teach program: '2015 saw the development and launch of parkour visions' apprenticeship certification program. It's the culmination of decades of experience from many different parkour coaches and athletes and i can't wait to see where it goes from here!' - brandee laird, head coach. In 2015, we formalized our apprenticeship program and opened up applications to the public. Certification consists of a rigorous, 12 week program that includes classroom instruction, reading and homework, and hands-on teaching experience. All qualified applicants received a complete scholarship for this $3000 program. We expanded our outreach programs in new ways in 2015. We worked with the ymca to offer after school parkour programs at schools like eckstein, jane addams, and hamilton middle. We used parkour as an introduction to physical science at the center school and to teach film theory to students from the overlake school. In the summer, we expanded our outreach with programs including sessions for aspergers and autism spectrum kids at aspiring youth, which we held outdoors at ravenna park, sessions at pkv for kids whose parents are in cancer treatment at the fred hutch cancer research center, and an outdoor workshop at jefferson park for at-risk youth in the sos outreach program. In 2015, we started a new program to give free unlimited memberships to k-12 teachers, police, fire, and military personnel. We gave out 28 memberships and the program will continue in 2016. In total, our teaching program reached 3,266 new students and attendance across all programs reached 27,045. 
