---
name: "HELP ANIMALS INDIA"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- poverty
- arts
ein: 263681514
homepage: "www.helpanimalsindia.org"
address: |
 19215 32nd Avenue NE, \nSeattle, WA 98155
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Help animals india's educates the usa public and worldwide about animal and environmental issues in india in order to raise funds for specific animal shelters and projects in india. We also endeavor to improve animal welfare standards in india through sponsoring and working with animal sanctuaries, veterinarian training camps, animal birth control and vegetarian related projects in india. Help animals india is dedicated to improving the lives and welfare of animals by providing financial and consultation support to and building capacity of animal rescue groups in india while connecting donors with the most promising and needful ones, ensuring donors' support is spent responsibly and effectively, and thereby cultivating a culture of compassion for all animals"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Help animals india is a 501(c)3 organization dedicated to improving the lives and welfare of animals by providing financial and consultation to support and build capacity of animal rescue groups in india while connecting donors with the most promising and needful groups, ensuring donors' support is spent responsibly and effectively, and thereby cultivating a culture of compassion for all animals
  
  help animals india gave grants to visakha society for protection and care of animals (vspca) india to assist with a myriad of innovative and lifesaving projects: after the devastating cyclone hudhud in octoer 2014; outreach for animal rescue and shelter restoration of cattle shed, workers room, aviary, abc (animal birth control) sheds and laboratory room. All trees need replanting. Street dogs - target of zero rabies in the area was reached and a full-time abc program continued. Temple calves grant helps vspca rescue live calves which are offered to the temple for illegal killing. Star tortoises , olive ridley sea turtle rescue and rehabilitation of this endangered species including wages for a night watchman. Sos daily expenses, wages for emergency animal rescue personnel. Special needs facility for this facility is for old, blind and disabled dogs , rescue illegally-used parrots. Abc for cats and stray cat rescue and stopping poaching. Purchase of cat traps. Cat and dog protection program with feeding of street dogs. Vegan meals with the kindness mobile restaurant provides vegan meals and blankets to the very poor who also care for street dogs. Water bowls for the street animals. Operational expenses (including vet salaries) as the only animal shelter/hospital in the region, the grant has allowed vspca to continue to care for an increasing number of animals of more than 1800 animals receiving life-time care; daily emergency animal rescues and mobile rescue facilities. Adoption program - grant supports wages for team to manage awareness/education/adoption program. Plastic cow grant for medicines required for surgery to remove plastic from stomachs of cows. 
