---
name: "LEGAL COUNSEL FOR YOUTH AND CHILDREN"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 273006526
homepage: "www.lcycwa.com"
address: |
 PO Box 16083, \nSeattle, WA 98116
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Children have unique legal rights and interests. Children involved in the juvenile court systems face cascading repercussions such as poor school attendance, graduation rates, unemployment, involvement in the criminal justice system and homelessness. These children are in need of legal advocacy that goes beyond what is provided through today's standard public defense. Legal counsel for youth and children (lcyc) provides multidisciplinary, holistic legal advocacy for children in child welfare proceedings and other juvenile court matters. When we represent a youth in juvenile court we also provide educational advocacy such as addressing special education needs and school discipline. Lcyc also provides legal counsel to immigrant youth and homeless youth and young adults. We strive to ensure each child's voice is heard, unique legal rights protected, court experience enriched and life improved. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Lcyc provides specialized, holistic legal advocacy for children in child welfare proceedings and other juvenile court matters. Lcyc works to ensure each child's voice is heard, unique legal rights protected, court experience enriched and life improved. Lcyc advises youth who are or are at risk of becoming homeless. Legal counsel for youth and children (lcyc) protects children's unique legal rights and interests through multidisciplinary, holistic legal advocacy. Our direct services are both preventative and responsive to the needs of children and youth in king county, our holistic approach extends beyond what is provided and compensated for by county funds. In terms of preventative advocacy, lcyc represents children in child welfare proceedings where we have an opportunity to help strengthen or rebuild families and prepare youth transitioning to independence. Strengthening families and preparing youth for adulthood can impact the number of homeless youth and young adults in king county. When representing children in child welfare or juvenile offender cases, we also provide educational advocacy, striving to increase school stability and expanding access to needed educational support. These services can have immediate and long-term effects on the child's future graduation, employment and housing. In collaboration with northwest immigrant rights project (nwirp) and kids in need of defense (kind), lcyc provides direct legal assistance to immigrant youth, proactively preventing deportation and expanding the youth's opportunities in this country. Lcyc's future legal services, planned in partnership with street youth legal advocates of washington (sylaw) will respond to the needs of homeless youth and young adults. We will provide direct legal advocacy to remove barriers to education, employment, public benefits, safety, and housing. By responding to the immediate legal needs of homeless youth and young adults, we hope to decrease the duration of their time without housing and to prevent its reoccurrence. Lcyc has conducted data reviews and issue and issued impact reports on the findings. Here are some highlights from our 2015 impact report. (1) placement: children with attorneys from the first hearing are more likely than children without counsel at the start to reside with parents, relatives or other caring adults they know throughout their dependency cases. (2) permanency: children with attorneys from the first hearing onward are more likely to remain with or successfully return to their parents than children without counsel at the start. (3) out-of-court advocacy: the vast majority of all open cases require out-of-court legal advocacy in the areas of placement, family visits, education and services for the child. Out-of-court advocacy is also commonly provided on issues of permanency planning and timely permanency. (4) motions: 42% of the motions filed by lcyc on behalf of children in open cases related directly to placement, requesting that children be placed with their parents, family or known community members; 27% of the motions involved family visitation. (5) child's participation: children with attorneys from the first hearing are more likely to engage in the court process by appearing for hearings or submitting written testimony to the court. Lcyc will continue to collect and assess data and outcomes to improve services and raise the bar of children's defense around washington. 
