---
name: "ACADEMY OF INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT - WA"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- social
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 273792158
homepage: "www.theaie.us"
address: |
 305 Harrison Street Armory Ste 405, \nSeattle, WA 981094623
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The corporation is organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes within the meaning of internal revenue code section 501 (c) (3), including educational purposes. The purposes of this corporation shall include offering certificate programs in computer game development (both in 3d animation and programming), 3d animation for film, tv, visualization and associated industries. Aie - wa was formed to address the needs in the state of washington for a well-rounded vocational education resulting in a certificate/advanced diploma in game software design, production and 3d animation that apply to video game development, and also the need for the establishment of standards and practices in the fields of video game quality assurance and video game production. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Aie trains students for employment and career opportunities in 3d animation, game development, and related fields through the provision of world class education as well as acting as a catalyst to build these industries. Advanced diploma of professional game development - game art & animation (1600 hours/2 years, cip code 11. 0803): the advanced diploma of professional game development - game art & animation was developed in response to industry needs and driven by extensive consultation with local and international game development studios. The advanced diploma is a two-year full-time course, focused on getting students to meet or exceed industry expectations in order to gain employment with a development studio or to develop their own independent games. Game artists design the environments, create the characters and craft the vehicles for the games that you love to play. They can specialize in modeling, texturing, animation, and level design. Game art development is a dynamic medium to showcase creative ability. Students work with other artists and programmers to design and create their own unique entertainment experiences using cutting-edge game technology. Aie - wa and the game art & animation course celebrated its fourth graduating class in this subject, producing 10 industry-ready graduates. In addition, 23 first-year students enrolled in the course and are expected to graduate in june 2016. 
