---
name: "Real Escape From The Sex Trade"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- women
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 453531020
homepage: "www.iwantrest.com"
address: |
 4215 Rainier Avenue S Suite B, \nSeattle, WA 98118
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Rest exists to provide pathways of freedom, safety and hope to people who have been exploited for commercial sex and people involved in the sex trade in seattle and beyond. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Sex trafficking is one of the most profitable forms of trafficking and involves many kinds of sexual exploitation. Rest exists to provide pathways of freedom, safety and hope to people who have been exploited for commercial sex and people involved in the sex trade in seattle and beyond. The house: prior to establishing our restorative housing program, there were no residential services specifically designed to meet the unique needs of sexually exploited young women, ages 18-24 in king county. In september 2012 we opened our pilot program with two beds. Based on the success of our pilot year, we expanded to six beds in a larger residential property in december 2013. Our long-term residential housing program is a place where young women can begin to dream again of a new life and receive individualized services including specialized wraparound case management, education, life skills, vocational training, limited medical and dental, transportation and bus fare, food, clothing, allowances, incentives, support, counseling, survivor support and more. Residents can stay up to two years at no cost to the resident. During the year, rest provided housing for 13 residents, 4 of whom began education services, 4 of whom began engaging employment services or acquired a job, 5 who engaged in chemical dependency services, & 13 who began mental health services, & all who participated in survivor support services, case management and life skills classes. 
