---
name: "COMMUNITY FOR YOUTH"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 521494505
homepage: "www.communityforyouth.org"
address: |
 999 Third Ave Suite 1080, \nSeattle, WA 98104
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Community for youth inspires and supports the social, emotional, and academic development of students through mentoring, learning experiences and a powerful community. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Community for youth inspires and supports the social, emotional and academic development of students through mentoring, learning experiences and a powerful community. Cfy trains volunteers in youth intervention, skill building, and mentoring youth at-risk on a one-on-one basis. Mentors are matched with students from six of seattle's high schools with the lowest graduation rates. Those schools are cleveland, rainier beach, chief sealth, south lake, franklin, and garfield. Both students and mentors are involved in the selection of their match. Mentors and students meet on a weekly basis throughout the school year. The 'launch' weekend in october is an overnight camping event that introduces students to mentors. 'match' night pairs mentors with students in a process guided in part by the students themselves. 'boost' weekend is another overnight camping trip in feb when re-focusing is often helpful, and large workshops and group activities are conducted throughout the school year. Our program teaches and instills core concepts focused on personal growth and accountability. Our values are community, self awareness, integrity, empowerment, sense of purpose, optimism, and grace. Cfy aims to build a community of support for both our students and their mentors. As of this filing (dec 2014), cfy is supporting over 150 volunteers and over 100 students, who have a graduation rate of 98% in our program. 
