---
name: "SPLASH INTERNATIONAL"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- youth
- health
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 562600599
homepage: "www.splash.org"
address: |
 1115 E Pike Street, \nSeattle, WA 98122
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Splash cleans water for kids. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Splash cleans water for kids. Splash provided clean water to more than 280,000 kids by installing and maintaining water purification systems in bangladesh, cambodia, china, ethiopia, india, nepal and thailand. At every new site, splash committed to future maintenance and service of the water filtration systems, including spare parts. In bangladesh, ethiopia, and nepal, splash complimented the clean water intervention with school-based hygiene education programs. Hand washing stations and school-wide soap drives, coupled with the formation of student hygiene clubs that taught other students about the importance of hand washing with soap, augmented the impact of clean drinking water. Results were regularly updated for each site on splash's transparency platform, <http://www. Proving. It/>. Splash strengthened local partnerships (with governments, ngos, and private sector) and deepened its fundamental commitment not to 'drop off' or 'export' an intervention, but instead be a catalyst for locally rooted, sustainable solutions. In nepal and cambodia, splash explored options for an eventual transition the current charity model to a social business model that sustainably supports splash's philanthropic endeavors. In bangladesh, splash initiated an implementation partnership with a local organization that will, over time, adopt splash's model and bring it to even greater scale within the country. 
