---
name: "SEATTLE SCIENCE FOUNDATION"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- technology
- arts
ein: 611502822
homepage: "www.seattlesciencefoundation.org"
address: |
 550 17th Avenue No 600, \nSeattle, WA 98122
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Medical education, research, innovation and technology based in seattle, washington. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Dedicated to advancing the quality of patient care through education, research, innovation and technology. Courses & training:the seattle science foundation is a non-profit organization dedicated to international collaboration among physicians, scientists, technologists, engineers and educators. The foundation's training facilities and extensive internet connectivity have been designed to foster improvements in health care through professional medical education, training, creative dialogue and innovation. Effective january 1, 2015, seattle science foundation affiliated with western healthconnect enabling it to provide even more services highlighted below. Highlights from 2015:1) developed a new seattle science foundation (ssf) website that lets people know who we are, what we do and how to get involved. Page views grew from 250 in march to 7,968 in june. 2) released a new overview video that highlights the physicians and what ssf means to their practice. 3) launched ssf's youtube channel featuring over 120 videos. 4) restructured the bioskills lab so that it looks and functions as a simulated operating room. 5) began utilizing swedish medical techs for lab support. 6) partnered with seattle university to provide internship experiences as well as working with their center for service and community engagement program to develop additional collaboration opportunities. 7) revitalized and created a series of social media tools to further ssf's reach as an online resource for physicians. 8) secured transportable equipment for a neurological skull base lab. 9) currently working with 31 physician leaders to increase our reach and ability to bring in additional business. 10) integrated ssf into physician on-boarding, leadership forums, and internal communications to increase overall awareness. 11) working cme companies in wa. Mt. , or. , wy. And kyushu university in japan to provide live broadcasts of ssf activities. 12) hosted two world renowned physicians, the fathers of modern spine surgery, at the one spine master course. 13) created a young surgical society designed for surgeons new to the area or those new to practice. 
