---
name: "Global Visionaries"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 710872239
homepage: "www.global-visionaries.org"
address: |
 2524 16th Avenue S, \nSeattle, WA 98144
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Global visionaries (gv) directly served 630 youth in 2014-15 in four distinct programs in the u. S and guatemala. 75% of those participants are from low-income families. Gv gives need based scholarships so students are able to participate regardless of their income. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Gv empowers young people to become global leaders in creating a just and sustainable future. Gv is a youth-led organization that unites ethnically and socio-economically diverse youth to collaboratively confront complex global issues. Founded in 1997, gv seeks to close the disparity gap by opening access to leadership opportunities for students of all backgrounds. First year leadership program:125 students participated in our first-year leadership program which involves local service projects, leadership training and a 15-day cultural immersion and work experience in guatemala. 50 additional participants participated in a truncated version including the guatemalan immersion. Gv brings together a richly diverse group of high school youth. 50% from low-income families and 50% from middle and upper income families. Gv participants come from more than 25 schools throughout the puget sound. In 2014-15, gv provided $123,000 in scholarship funding (including provided full scholarships for four youth in foster care in 2014-15). Gv youth leaders have totaled 587,267 hours of community service since gv's inception, 145,248 of them in the past two years alone. In guatemala, they have built 31 school rooms, kitchens and community centers, and planted over 27,000 trees in reforestation projects (both since gv's inception). 
