---
name: "NORTHWEST AFRICAN AMERICAN MUSEUM INC"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- technology
- arts
ein: 760835379
homepage: "naamnw.org"
address: |
 2300 Massachusetts Street, \nSeattle, WA 98144
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The museum documents and exhibits the unique historical and cultural experiences of african americans in seattle and the pacific northwest, gathering place where people can honor the past and the future, discovering, honoring, celebrating african american community traditions and innovations in art, education, history and culture. The museum is a generative institution capturing history. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The museum documents and exhibits the unique historical and cultural experiences of african americans in seattle and the pacific northwest, gathering place where people can honor the past and the future, discovering, honoring, celebrating african american community traditions in art, education, history and culture. The museum is a generative institution capturing history. Exhibits/admissions:marita dingus: at home (part ii) baskets, quilts, fences, and dolls are all sculpture to marita dingus, whether they're displayed on the wall, used for storage, or enclosing her pet goats. Objects from dingus's home, including her collection of african and caribbean figures, are the basis of this intimate and revealing exhibition. In contrast with the gallery setting, a series of photographs taken by spike mafford will show how the artist actually lives with her art. Pitch black: african american baseball in washington baseball in washington's black communities has a strong but quiet history. Left without a professional negro leagues team until 1946, much of our state's black baseball history was undocumented. Pitch black features vignettes of this rich history using iconic artifacts, photographs, and oral histories. Funky turns 40: black character revolution animation art from classic cartoons of the 1970s this special exhibition commemorates the 40th anniversaries of 1970s saturday morning cartoons that featured positive black characters for the first time in television history. The exhibition features sixty original production cels and drawings used to produce these cartoons. Also included are images from the animated opening to soul train and two of the few black-cast/black-focused animated features that have been produced since the 1970s. 
