---
name: "SWEDISH HEALTH SERVICES"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 910433740
homepage: "www.swedish.org"
address: |
 747 Broadway, \nSeattle, WA 981224307
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To improve the health and well-being of each person we serve in our medical facilities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Swedish is a regional healthcare system committed to meeting the health-care needs of the community. Acute care - inpatient patient days - 203,182admissions - 48,426since 1910, swedish has been the region's hallmark for excellence in healthcare. In fact, in an independent research study conducted by the national research corp. , swedish is consistently named the area's best hospital. Swedish has grown to become the largest nonprofit healthcare provider in the greater seattle area with more than 9,000 employees, more than 4000 physicians and 1,000 active volunteers. Swedish has: * five hospital campuses (ballard, cherry hill, edmonds, first hill and issaquah). Swedish edmonds is a separate corporation under the swedish health services 'umbrella' and files a separate form 990. * an ambulatory care center featuring an emergency department, and urgent and primary care clinics in redmond and mill creek. * swedish medical group, a network of more than 100 primary-care and specialty clinics located throughout the puget sound. * affiliations with community hospitals and physician groups. In addition to general medical and surgical care, swedish is known as a regional referral center, providing specialized treatment in areas such as cardiovascular care, cancer care, neuroscience, orthopedics, high-risk obstetrics, pediatric specialties, organ transplantation and clinical research. Swedish is affiliated with providence health & services, which is a not-for-profit catholic healthcare ministry committed to providing for the needs of the communities it serves - especially for those who are poor and vulnerable. Providence and its affiliates include 34 hospitals, 475 physician clinics, senior services, supportive housing and many other health and educational services. The affiliated health system employs more than 76,000 people across five states - alaska, california, montana, oregon and washington - with its system office located in renton, washington. During 2014, there were over 10,000 births, 150,121 emergency room visits and 35,135 surgeries performed. But swedish is not just facilities, research and new techniques. It's about people coming together to provide the most compassionate care possible. From nurses and physicians to social workers and dieticians, the dedicated teams at swedish are defining on a personal level what excellence really means. Improving the health and well-being of the community is central to the swedish mission. 
