---
name: "UNITED WAY OF KING COUNTY"
tags:
- charitable
- youth
- health
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 910565555
homepage: "www.uwkc.org"
address: |
 720 Second Avenue, \nSeattle, WA 98104
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "United way of king county brings caring people together to give, to volunteer and to take action to help people in need and to solve our community's toughest challenges. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

United way of king county brings caring people together to give, volunteer and take action to help people in need and solve our community's toughest challenges. We bring together people and organizations with the passion, expertise and resources to get things done. We take on challenges like meeting basic needs, ending homelessness, and giving every child an equal chance to succeed. We invest in solutions and achieve results. Strengthening the community: united way of king county is committed to changing our community for the better in fundamental lasting ways by enhancing the ability of individuals to care for one another. We are able to play this role because of the trust the community has in united way of king county's expertise, efficiency and results. We understand our community, its people and its challenges. In addition to expertise, united way of king county stands for efficiency. Achievements: 32,600 volunteers connected to service projects. United way of king county is a central hub of volunteering in our region with its innovative on-line volunteer matching tool. 19,900 free tax returns filed bringing $27. 2 million in federal refunds back into our community. 1. 3 million visits to food banks helping people meet their basic food needs. 600,000 summer meals delivered to hungry kids, surpassing 1 million meals in two years. 
