---
name: "SEATTLE UNIVERSITY"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 910565006
homepage: "www.seattleu.edu"
address: |
 901 12th Avenue, \nSeattle, WA 981221090
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Seattle university, an institution of higher education, is dedicated to educating the whole person, to professional formation, and to empowering leaders for a just and humane world. (continued on schedule o. Statement 1)"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Seattle university is dedicated to educating the whole person, to professional formation, and to empower leaders for a just and humane world. Seattle university, founded in 1891, is a jesuit catholic university and law school located on 50 acres in seattle's capitol hill neighborhood. In the academic year 2014-15, the university enrolled 7,405 students and awarded 1,181 bachelor's degrees or equivalents, 89 post-baccalaureates, 711 master's degrees, 32 post-master's certificates, and 289 professional degrees. Awards and high rankings for academic rigor, sustainability, community service and social justice are among seattle university's touchstones of excellence. Here's a look at many of the honors bestowed on the university. Seattle university is one of the top universities in the west, according to u. S. News & world report: best colleges 2016. The university ranks sixth for its full range of undergraduate, master's and select doctoral degree programs. The university consistently has held a spot in the west's top 10 for more than a dozen years. Among u. S. News specialty rankings, the albers school of business and economics ranks #11 for finance, the top program of its kind in the northwest, and #13 for accounting. Overall, albers is tied for #36 among private business schools in the nation. The college of science and engineering ranked #33 among all engineering schools in the u. S. That offer a bachelor's or master's degree. Seattle university school of law has the #1 legal writing program in the nation. The clinical program is #20 and the part-time program #23 in the u. S. Additionally, the school of law is among the most diverse in the country. The albers school of business and economics leadership executive mba and graduate accounting programs are #1 in the northwest. Nationally, the executive mba is #18 and the graduate accounting specialization ranks #15 among the top programs of its kind. The part-time professional mba program is #2 in the northwest and #61 in the u. S. Hip, straightforward and consulted by millions of future students and their families, this selective guide considered 2,200 four-year colleges in the u. S. , canada and great britain before choosing just 300 institutions-the top 14%-to be included and seattle university is among them. The guide is compiled by former new york times education editor edward fiske, a leading independent voice in college admissions. Colleges of distinction, a college guide that takes into account the success of graduates, the quality of teaching, graduation rates, class size and campus atmosphere, features seattle university in its latest edition. High school college counselors nominate colleges and universities for inclusion in the national guide. Fewer than half of those considered are selected to be in the guide. Catholic colleges of distinction also showcases seattle university among those schools that excel at four distinctions: engaged students, great teaching, vibrant communities and successful outcomes. College factual ranks seattle university 15th in the nation for successfully delivering an education in liberal arts/science and humanities with graduates among the top earners in the u. S. Starting wages rival those of new graduates from elite ivy league schools, according to college factual, which challenges the status quo to help prospective students make better decisions about college. Seattle university ranked #1 among private universities nationwide for increasing graduation rates and closing gaps between hispanic and caucasian students. The report came from the education trust, which also ranked seattle university #2 for increasing the overall graduation rate of hispanic students by 31. 7 percent during a six-year period (2004-10). Seattle university is the only private school in washington state among the top 25 with increased hispanic graduation rates and the only jesuit school in the nation to make the list. The national science foundation graduate research fellowship, prestigious multi-year funding program, supports graduate-level researchers in the physical and social sciences. Nine seattle university students have been selected in the past decade. In 2012, the white house honored seattle university with the presidential award for community service, the highest recognition by the federal government to a college or university for its civic engagement, service learning and volunteerism. The university was one of only five universities in the nation to receive this honor and the only university cited as a promise neighborhoods recipient for coordinated, wrap-around, youth-focused service that supports the educational and social needs of children. A seattle times editorial called out the award and noted, 'seattle university serves as a national example of the difference higher education can make on its neighbors. ' then-again in 2013-seattle university set a precedent by earning national recognition for the second consecutive year, making the president's higher education community service honor roll with distinction. The accolade acknowledges the university's overall commitment to service as well as its significant work to implement the seattle university youth initiative, which unites the university and wider community in a long-term commitment to build a better future for young people starting with pre-kindergarten and continuing through college. In 2014, seattle university once again was honored by the president's higher education community service honor roll in the following areas: interfaith community service - one of four finalists for the top award in this category; general community service - honor roll with distinction; education - honor roll; and economic opportunity - honor roll. Among master's universities, seattle university ranks #3 in the nation for the number of staff supporting community service, the number of academic courses that incorporate service as well as scholarships for community service, according to washington monthly september/october 2015 edition. Washington monthly also included seattle university in its top 10 based on the number of alumni who go on to serve in the peace corps, relative to school size. For the third consecutive year, seattle university ranks among the top 10 small schools in the nation to produce peace corps volunteers. With 15 alumni currently serving in the peace corps worldwide in 2014, su tied for sixth. A total of 357 su alumni have served since the peace corps began in 1961. Four out of five seattle university undergraduate students serve the community through volunteer activities, internships and professional development. In all, students contribute more than 132,000 hours of volunteer service annually, with an economic value of more than $3. 6 million. Eighty percent of seattle u undergraduates take a course with a service-learning component at some point during their time at the university. Seattle university's students, faculty and staff volunteer at more than three times the national average. A major focus of service is the seattle university youth initiative, a pipeline of support for the success of young people starting in pre-kindergarten and continuing through college. The initiative's first effort is its long-term commitment to improving the academic achievement of low-income youth in the bailey gatzert neighborhood just south of campus. 
