---
name: "Jack Straw Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 910776606
homepage: "www.jackstraw.org"
address: |
 4261 Roosevelt Way NE, \nSeattle, WA 98105
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Jack straw productions exists to foster the communication of arts, ideas, and information to diverse audiences through audio media. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Jack straw productions exists to foster the communication of arts, ideas, and information to diverse audiences through audio media. Jack straw cultural center impacts the arts and cultural communities of seattle in diverse and significant ways. In 2015, thousands of people listened to our radio productions and podcasts, visited our new media gallery, attended our events, and participated in our programs. Not only did we provide a unique laboratory and venue for artists working creatively with sound, but we also provided important services for numerous arts and heritage organizations in seattle and puget sound. We offered arts and technology programs for elementary, middle, and high school students in schools, in various community locations, and at jack straw cultural center with a special focus on youth with disabilities and with students with limited english proficiency. We worked with arts and visually impaired audiences to provide access services for the visually impaired for performing and visual arts events, to provide the 19th year of our programs for blind and visually impaired students, and to provide a series of art workshops in our new media gallery for visually impaired students and sighted friends and family. We served over 4,000 individuals through direct services in our facility and over 100,000 individuals through radio broadcasts and podcasts of our artist and youth productions. We also continued the improvement of our public spaces begun with our major building renovation in 2013, which created an accessible entranceway to our building with new exterior painting, mural, and signage. The new space has been invaluable in meeting our programming goals. We also upgraded our main hallway, which now provides our gallery artists and ourselves with much needed space to display photographs and other visual material and a much more pleasant environment for the public. Selected highlights:artist residencies: we successfully completed the twenty-second year of the jack straw artist support program, nineteenth year of the jack straw writers program, and the sixteenth year of the jack straw new media gallery and gallery residency program. One hundred thirty-five artists created 45 new artworks, participated in 43 events in 15 community locations, 6 exhibits, 1 anthology, and 36 radio programs or podcasts reaching over 50,000 audience members. Education programs: we served over 1,000 elementary, middle school, and high school students in creative and curriculum-based projects including creative writing, oral history, radio theater, music recording, and audio production. Many of our arts education programs reached broader audiences, such as immigration portraits, a radio series produced with denny international middle school eighth grade history students based on interviews they conducted with their teachers about their personal immigration experiences. This year, we expanded to implement versions of immigration portraits with spanish immersion students and english language learners. We continued our ongoing programs such as our poetry writing, performance, and recording with new refugees at the seattle world school and the 19th year of our blind youth audio program, serving 45 visually impaired elementary, middle, and high school students from throughout washington state. We partnered with the experience music project museum to present a special science fiction writing project and a native american myth-based project for 6th graders at broadview thomson and we assisted wing luke museum with a special education program for asian-american youth. We also provided professional training for artists, teachers, and other community members. Community partnerships and program services: we continued our partnership with the seattle public library center for the book to produce annual library readings by jack straw writers and our partnership with washington composers forum to produce monthly composer events and the transport concert series. We also continued our co-production of workshops and events with literary organizations raven chronicles and floating bridge press, the weekly production and broadcast of green acre environmental radio program, and weekly production of sonarchy radio featuring regional musicians for kexp. We also provided a variety of arts, heritage, and education organizations with production support. 
