---
name: "El Centro de la Raza"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 910899927
homepage: "www.ElCentroDeLaRaza.org"
address: |
 2524 16th Avenue South, \nSeattle, WA 981445104
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Services to enable latino & other low-income persons to develop self-sufficiency"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

As an organization grounded in the latino community, our mission is to build unity across all racial and economic sectors, to organize, empower, and defend our most vulnerable and marginalized populations and to bring justice, dignity, equality, and freedom to all the peoples of the world. Child & youth programs: investing in our children and their future, el centro de la raza provides an array of bilingual, multicultural child and youth services to the local community. These programs are free with the exception of the child development center and after school program, which are fee-based but also provide subsidies for low-income families. Through these services: -infants and young children meet development milestones. -young children are prepared to enter kindergarten. -students develop and strengthen skills and/or habits that support academic success. -educationally at-risk students make academic progress. -at-risk youth develop computer and technology skills. -at-risk youth are encouraged and better prepared to pursue and/or enroll in post-secondary education. -parents and guardians participate in children's learning. -identify, alleviate, and meet the needs of at-risk pregnant women. 
