---
name: "Northwest Montessori School"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- social
- military
- greek
- poverty
ein: 910832018
homepage: "www.northwestmontessori.org"
address: |
 7400 25th Avenue NE, \nSeattle, WA 98115
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide an individualized learning environment, based on the principles of dr. Maria montessori, that is designed to help students become independent, life-long learners who are academically grounded and socially confident about their place in the world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To provide an individualized learning environment, based on the principles of dr. Maria montessori, that is designed to help students become independent, life-long learners who are academically grounded and socially confident about their place in the world. Northwest montessori school was founded in 1965. Currently, we have 160 students between the ages of 2 1/2 and 12 years old. Northwest montessori school is based on the montessori method of education and is recognized by the association montessori internationale. We have three locations in the seattle area. All of our preschool classrooms maintain a one to ten teacher ratio. Our elementary program is approved by the superintendent of public education for washington state. At its core, the montessori philosophy respects children as they are and creates carefully prepared classroom environments that foster the fulfillment of each child's highest potential. Montessori teachers use the dynamic educational approach to carefully observe and best meet the evolving developmental needs of each student, the three year age span in each classroom also allows children to progress at their own intellectual pace, to learn individually and together, and to grow into social and emotional maturity naturally. The average teacher longevity is ten years. All of our teachers have a diploma award from the association of montessori internationale. Northwest montessori school offers the spanish language to all students, preschool to 6th grade. 
