---
name: "Columbia Legal Services"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 910974503
homepage: "www.columbialegal.org"
address: |
 101 Yesler Way Suite 300, \nSeattle, WA 98104
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Provide free civil legal assistance to indigent persons in washington. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Columbia legal services (cls) advocates for people who face injustice and poverty in washington. Through policy, litigation and innovative partnerships we seek to reveal and end actions that harm the communities we serve, breaking down barriers to achieve social and economic justice. Columbia legal services focus is on systemic change and reducing poverty for low-income people across washington. Our program has been a critical resource for local, state, and national decision makers due to its deep expertise in a variety of social and economic justice issues. As a nonprofit law firm, our work involves policy advocacy, litigation, research, public education and collaboration with governmental and nongovernmental community partners. In 2015, cls attorneys helped thousands of low-income people, including foster youth and homeless kids in need of education and health care; families struggling to maintain basic needs such as food and housing; ex-offenders seeking employment; and low-income consumers, tenants, and homeowners who are struggling to overcome unfair and predatory practices. We have successfully advocated for the return of over a million dollars to farmworkers who were the victims of wage theft. Prisoners subject to cruel and unusual punishment will now receive humane treatment from their jailors thanks to cls litigation efforts. Former prisoners benefit from our reentry clinic by receiving immediate advice on how to manage their legal financial obligations, and receive access to housing and employment to help ease their return to the community. We argued before the state supreme court on behalf of beleaguered homeowners and employees acting in the public interest. And over 10,000 children in the states foster care system benefited from continuing work by cls advocates to provide constitutionally adequate care for foster children and youth. As a result of our advocacy, thousands of individuals have obtained a second chance to secure jobs, families have housing stability, and vulnerable youth have the opportunity to pursue education and have an increased likelihood for a stable future out of foster care. 
