---
name: "Special Olympics Washington"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- elderly
- gender
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 910962383
homepage: "SpecialOlympicsWashinqton.orq"
address: |
 1809 7th Ave No 1509, \nSeattle, WA 98101
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Training & athletic competition for athletes with intellectual & associated developmental disabilities"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Special olympics washington provides year-round sports training and athletic competition in a variety of olympic type sports for children and adults with intellectual disabilities, giving them continuing opportunities to develop physical fitness, demonstrate courage, experience joy and participate in the sharing of gifts, skills and friendship with their families, other special olympics athletes and the community. Persons with intellectual disabilities, regardless of ability level, may participate in sports and other programs offered by special olympics washington. Individuals are eligible for training and competition at age eight and there is no upper age limit. More than 14,000 athletes participate in sowa activities; over 4. 5 million athletes compete in special olympics programs in 180 countries. * training & competitiontraining and competition is offered year round to special olympics athletes. Competition takes place at local, regional and state tournaments. Individuals and teams compete in divisions according to age, gender and ability. * volunteersmore than 8,000 volunteers support special olympics washington activities. Volunteers serve as coaches, sports officials, committee members and on-site volunteers at competitions and fundraising events. Coaches and officials are trained and certified at clinics offered by special olympics washington. More than 1. 7 million volunteers support special olympics programs worldwide. * unified sportsathletes with intellectual disabilities pair with persons without disabilities and form teams for training and competition. Unified sports integrates special olympics athletes with other athletes to build self-esteem and increase understanding of persons with different abilities. * healthy athletesspecial olympics athletes are provided opportunities to improve health and fitness through dental, vision, feet, hearing and general health screenings. Physicians and healthcare professionals provide these services at no cost to special olympics athletes at tournaments. * sportso winter season & winter games - alpine skiing, basketball, cross country skiing, figure & speed skating, snowboardingo spring season & summer games - aquatics, athletics (track & field), long distance running/walking, cycling, power lifting, soccero summer season & summer sports - golf, softballo fall season - bowling, volleyball (recreational)* young athletesan innovative sports play program, designed for early childhood intervention, seeks to strengthen self-esteem and physical development for children with id ages 2-7 years old. * athlete leadership programathletes are provided the opportunity to expand personal growth by acting as spokespersons, team captains, coaches, officials or by representation on the special olympics washington board of directors. * get into ita school-based curriculum initiative, so get into it helps teachers and students promote awareness and acceptance of people with intellectual disabilities. 
