---
name: "Providence Mount St Vincent Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 911188119
homepage: "washington.providence.org/donate/"
address: |
 4831 - 35th Ave SW, \nSeattle, WA 981262799
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Support providence mount st. Vincent in seattle, wa. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

As people of providence, we reveal god's love for all, especially the poor and vulnerable, through our compassionate service. Support providence mount st. Vincent in seattle, wa. History of providence mount st. Vincent foundationthe providence mount st. Vincent foundation was founded in 1982 to develop philanthropic support for the residents and programs of providence mount st. Vincent (the mount). Through the generous support of individuals, the business community and others, the foundation provides financial assistance particularly in support of those residents who have outlived their resources. It also supports program, capital and specific resident needs. Since its inception, the foundation has provided more than $22 million in funding to benefit providence mount st. Vincent. Older adults have held a special place in the hearts of the sisters of providence since the 1830s when founder mother emilie gamelin sheltered a 102-year-old woman and others in need in her montreal home. Since then, the sisters have helped older adults in many ways and in many regions. Their dream of a home for the aged in seattle became a reality in 1924 when sister mary conrad kratz enlisted sympathy from community leaders, raising $230,000 to build and dedicate 'st. Vincent's home for the aged' on nine acres of hilltop in west seattle. Today at 91-years-old, the mount is an award-winning living center that is nationally acclaimed as a 'pioneer' for its innovation and excellence in both programming and physical environment. Its philosophy of resident-directed care is being held as an industry standard, and the mount is a willing teacher to help others learn how to make changes that will enable older adults to have a more fulfilling life. Pmsv programs and services:hand in hand assisted living:for those who need help focusing on their capabilities to allow them to remain as independent as possible in an apartment setting. Nursing center neighborhoods:24-hour care in a home atmosphere. A family-style kitchen, dining and lounge area is the center of neighborhood activities. The sub-acute, transitional care neighborhood is a medicare-approved unit for short stay following acute illness or surgery and hospitalization. Intergenerational learning center:promotes the natural senior/child connection in intergenerational activities throughout the building and in the childcare center serving over 120 children. Community services:residents and non-residents from the surrounding community take advantage of the mount's excellent outpatient rehabilitation program. Community members join residents, family members, volunteers and staff in the beautiful chapel for both catholic and nondenominational services. Also located in the building are a full-service beauty salon, gift shop, jumpin' java espresso and cafe, and a pharmacy. The mount also makes available conference and meeting space for a number of community organizations and support groups. The mount fund/art at the mount/music fund:to support the various programs of the mount that benefit its residents, including music therapy, health & wellness programs (such as qi gong exercise), resident massages and acupuncture. Wonderful life: to enhance the quality of life for the residents of the skilled nursing units by providing entertainment (musicians, artists, etc. ), social activities (resident outings, food events, etc. ) and recreational and educational opportunities (books, news subscriptions, karaoke, etc. ). Nurses/caregivers education:to maximize the quality of care provided to the mount's residents by supporting the continuing education and training of the mount's staff. Emilie's thrift shop:items that are new or slightly used are donated to the thrift shop. These items are then sold and the funds are donated to mount saint vincent foundation for use in various programs. 
