---
name: "World Concern Development Organization"
tags:
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- rehabilitation
- poverty
- arts
ein: 911155150
homepage: "None"
address: |
 19303 Fremont Avenue N, \nSeattle, WA 981333800
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Overseas disaster response and development programs. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Wcdo exists for the purpose of seeking, receiving, implementing and administering funds from individual donors, foundations and governments for international relief and development programs. Somaliland communities resilience enhancement (score): the score program addresses the severe water shortage of communities in eastern somaliland who suffer recurrent droughts. It builds on an ongoing twenty-five month ofda-funded project. The lessons learned in the last grant show that sustained efforts in increasing the capacity for water harvesting need to be accompanied by a deeper understanding of the underlying causes of the water scarcity and the link between that and food insecurity. Wcdo is rehabilitating water points such as shallow wells, roof catchments for institutions, and sub-surface tanks to increase their capacity for harvesting and storing water. Training water user committees and hygiene and sanitation committees to manage the water sources within the community and enhance the positive behavior change for better health is an essential accompaniment. A disaster risk reduction component uses the participatory assessment of disaster risk tool to help communities identify drought-related vulnerabilities and then design action plans to mitigate the same. At the same time, the water user committees mobilize villagers to engage in rehabilitation of the environment as a way of protecting the water catchments. 
