---
name: "Agros International"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 911276578
homepage: "www.agros.org"
address: |
 2225 - 4th Avenue 2nd Floor, \nSeattle, WA 98121
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Empowering rural, poor families to overcome poverty with access to land, credit and training. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of agros international is to see rural poor families own agricultural land, attain economic self-sufficiency, realize their god-given potential, and pass on to future generations the values and resources that will enable them to flourish. The agros model is a uniquely holistic approach to alleviating rural poverty. By providing long-term land loans to the poor along with integrated services such as community organization, agriculture and health training, and financial education, entire rural villages are empowered to become self-sustaining and escape the devastating effects of extreme poverty. Program initiatives undertaken during the year include:* completed the purchase of two land parcels in nicaragua for $826,001, using primarily permanantly and land-purchase restricted funds. This will enable additional families to be served by the agros model. These funds were granted to affiliate land hope life where land parcels are held. * provided community and economic development training and assistance to 580 small-producer families (3439 individuals) in agros villages in nicaragua, honduras and mexico. Training included income-generating technical assistance in basic grain, coffee and vegetable production. * completed direct support for three communities that reached development milestones;* continued to provide health strategies for families, encouraging improved health practices and prevention of diseases, focusing particularly on pregnant women and children under five years old;* sponsored service teams to agros villages in which 141 u. S. Individuals participated. 
