---
name: "Astrophysical Research Consortium"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- arts
ein: 911265806
homepage: "HTTP://ARC.APO.NMSU.EDU"
address: |
 c/o Astronomy Dept Box 351580 UW, \nSeattle, WA 981951580
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Astrophysical research consortium was established to design, build and operate a variety of sizes and shapes of telescopes at its apache point site at sunspot, new mexico. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Astrophysical research consortium operates two telescopes at the apache point observatory. There is a 3. 5 meter general purpose telescope and a survey specialized 2. 5 meter sloan foundation telescope. The telescopes have distinct purposes in the service of their constituencies. The 3. 5 meter telescope benefits the research faculty, graduate and undergraduate students, and public outreach programs of each member institution. Using innovative remote software, astronomers can operate and collect data from anywhere in the world. The telescope has a suite of cameras and spectrographs that serve a wide variety of scientific endeavors, resulting in more than 50 refereed science results being published each year. There is an active outreach program at the observatory and at member institutions. The 2. 5 meter telescope, which operates the sdss-iii survey project, was especially productive in the past year, reflecting the effective and proactive maintenance program in place at apache point plus the continuation of exceptionally good weather. The project is a collaboration of more than 50 institutions and 600 astronomers. The primary foci of the survey this year were operations, data release 12, collaboration science analyses, and planning the transition from sdss-iii to sdss-iv. Boss (baryon oscillation spectroscopic survey) essentially completed its baseline data acquisition. Apogee (apache point observatory galactic evolution experiment) also made substantive progress in collecting its survey sample. Both surveys are refining their end-game observing scenarios. 
