---
name: "Virginia Mason Health System"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 911351110
homepage: "www.virginiamason.org"
address: |
 1100 Ninth Avenue, \nSeattle, WA 98101
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Advance and support the healthcare and research missions of virginia mason medical center and benaroya research institute at virginia mason through governance oversight of both organizations and development support provided by its division the virginia mason foundation. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Advance and support the healthcare and research missions of virginia mason medical center and benaroya research institute at virginia mason through governance oversight of both organizations and development support provided by its division the virginia mason foundation. The virginia mason health system the health system is the parent and sole voting member of the virginia mason medical center the medical center. The purpose of the health system is to advance and support the health care mission of the medical center. The health system achieves this purpose through governance oversight and development support. The medical center is a tertiary regional referral center which serves a patient community that includes seattle and its surrounding suburbs, western washington and alaska. The main campus located in seattle includes a hospital, an outpatient clinic, centers of excellence including the center for hyperbaric medicine, digestive disease institute, floyd delores jones cancer institute, heart institute, neuroscience institute and urology. The medical center also operates seven regional clinics, and bailey-boushay house, a 35-bed skilled-nursing facility. In 2014, the health system helped to support 16,519 inpatient admissions, 24,211 emergency room visits and 865,549 out-patient visits to the medical center. 
