---
name: "Alliance for Education"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 911508191
homepage: "www.AllianceforEd.org"
address: |
 509 Olive Way No 500, \nSeattle, WA 981011726
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To ensure every child in seattle public schools is prepared for success in college, career and life. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Through fundraising, advocacy and civic engagement, the alliance partners with our city's schools to ensure that every child is prepared for college, career and life. Partnering with seattle public schools (sps), the alliance leverages philanthropic educational investments and provides strategic and programmatic support to create systemic impact at all schools. - spirit work: events to support, celebrate and raise awareness within the community of the achievements of students, teachers and principals in sps - including the community breakfast, annual state of the district and a scholarships & awards celebration- strategic work: programs designed to impact systemic change within sps and address the underlying student performance issues within the district - including the seattle teacher residency, hr department redesign and others. (continued on schedule o)our strategic work includes: the seattle teacher residency (str) is modeled after medical residency model and is addressing the significant need for intensive, culturally-based training that prepares emerging educators for the rigors of improving student achievement in chronically under-performing urban schools. Str places residents in low income, high-diversity schools for a year-long practicum under the close guidance of carefully chosen, highly qualified mentor-teachers. At the same time, residents are enrolled in an intensive uw college of education master's degree program which fully integrates the classroom experience into the coursework. - str completed its inaugural year in august 2014 by graduating 21 of the 25 cohort one residents who successfully completed the intensive 14-month program. All 21 were hired at high-poverty sps schools. - all principals of the schools serving as str training sites reported that the residents positively impacted their schools' learning climate. - in july, str expanded enrollment and welcomed 31 new residents as members of 'cohort two' including seven enrolled in the new special ed training track. - str was invited by sen. Patty murray & rep. Dave reichert to present testimony october 7th to a bipartisan capitol hill briefing on 'profession-ready' teacher preparation. - str received prominent attention from the seattle times and usa today as a promising strategy for improving urban education. The alliance in partnership with local philanthropies is actively supporting the school district's hr department re-design and sps' participation in the urban schools human capital academy (ushca). Through the academy's intensive 3-year program, sps is learning to transform its human resources department from focusing on mere transactional work to alignment with the goals of the sps strategic plan. The objective is that the sps hr department becomes a high-functioning hub for talent recruitment and management and top-level service provider to principals supporting their efforts to improve teaching and learning in schools. As a result of this work so far, the 2014-2015 teacher hiring schedule was accelerated by a full month and processes for hiring teachers and principals were improved with new mock-classroom exercises, competency definitions and innovative efficiencies. The principal leadership partnership (plp) is an alliance initiative designed to develop and support current and future principals for sustained successful tenures in seattle public schools. A multi-disciplinary planning team was convened to determine how four educational organizations can collaborate to develop a rigorous, systemic approach to recruiting, developing and retaining great principals for seattle public schools. The seattle college access network (scan) and the intensive school partnership (isp) projects are aimed at our most underserved students and we are proud of successfully incubating and launching these initiatives. - in scan, the alliance organized 40+ independent providers and facilitated a collaborative plan directed toward the common goal of increasing post secondary enrollment of low income, first generation and students of color. Working collaboratively, the network enrolled almost 100% of eligible 8th graders in the 'college bound' scholarship program each year. - in the isp project, the alliance worked closely with sps to develop and launch a new partnership framework that improves alignment and evaluation of school-based student services. The model was piloted successfully at three schools and will be expanded to more schools this school year. The scan and isp programs are prime examples of the alliance operating in accordance with one of the core purposes envisioned at our founding 20 years ago: piloting innovative projects to address significant areas of inequity or need impacting large groups of students across the system; then, once launched and proven successful, transitioning the programs to other providers. After a vetting process that involved several would be 'suitors' last spring and summer, we transitioned these two programs to new agency homes. The board of the puget sound educational services district has agreed to continue scan as it simultaneously accepts management of the south king county college access network. Sps will be assuming sole management of the isp project early in 2015. 
