---
name: "EVERGREEN MOUNTAIN BIKE ALLIANCE"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- arts
ein: 911553023
homepage: "www.evergreenmtb.org"
address: |
 418 NE 72nd Street, \nSeattle, WA 98115
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Dedicated to preserving and enhancing mountain bicycling opportunities and trail access. Emba accomplishes these goals by focusing on education, advocacy, and recreation, by building common ground with land managers and user groups. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Evergreen creates and protects sustainable mountain biking opportunities in washington. Trail work: evergreen organizes and coordinates volunteer 'trail work parties' to build and improve trails and to maintain trails that have been damaged by severe weather and use over time in 2014. 298 work parties were held with 2,597 volunteers (volunteer days) for an estimated 14,837 hours of volunteer work. Trail projects: trail maintenance was performed in 10 counties, 5 national forests, 9 ranger districts, 4 state parks, 2 dnr state forests, 4 county parks and 3 city parks. Examples close to seattle include significant re-builds of popular trails on tiger mountain, duthie hill, grand ridge, paradise valley, middle fork snoqualmie, black diamond open space, and south fork snoqualmie. Multi-day camp, ride and volunteer events along highway 410 near mt rainier, orcas island, mt st helens, kettle crest and mt osborne were hugely successful. Work included trail brushing and clearing to re-establish trail corridors, tread repair, erosion control, drainage improvements, bucking and clearing downed logs, repairing wash-outs, trail re-routes and building turnpikes and rock armored fords. These trail maintenance accomplishments are critical to keeping trails open for hikers, mountain bikers and equestrians. In 2014 evergreen staff and volunteers completed significant new trail construction projects at tiger mt in issaquah and swan creek park in tacoma. New trail construction projects at tiger mt and the black diamond open space were also started. A trail planning project which will lead to as much as 30 miles of new trails off hwy 18 in the raging river state forest was also completed
