---
name: "Jubilee Womens Center"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 911539920
homepage: "www.jwcenter.org"
address: |
 620 18th Ave East, \nSeattle, WA 98112
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Jubilee women's center supports women experiencing poverty to build stable and fulfilling futures, one extraordinary woman at a time. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Guided by care managers, each jubilee resident sets goals for growth and development. We take a holistic approach and address the following life areas; basic needs (food and safety), physical health, trauma/depression/mental health, communication skills, legal issues, benefits, education, employment, financial health, housing, personal safely nets, and spiritual health. Our services include affordable housing, meals, job/technology and life skills classes, community referrals, computer lab, and free clothing boutique. In addition to the residents we serve in our 3 locations, we also provide critical resources, referrals, and classes to over 1,000 other low-income women in our community. Housing - jubilee provided housing for 48 women experiencing poverty in fy2014-15. All residents are at the poverty level of income when they come in to live at jubilee. They pay 30% of their monthly income in rent, with a $50 minimum, which helps them establish rental history. We serve adult women without children in their immediate care. Sixty percent have a history of domestic violence. Half have mental health challenges, most commonly depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder (given what they have been through, this is not surprising). Thirty percent suffer from physical disabilities. At jubilee, we have seen women become homeless because of an illness, such as cancer, or serious injury. Twenty-five percent have histories of addiction. This past year, of the women leaving jubilee housing, 90% transitioned to independent housing. 
