---
name: "Mosaic Multicultural Foundation"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 911531756
homepage: "www.mosaicvoices.org"
address: |
 4218 1/2 SW Alaska, \nSeattle, WA 98116
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Mosaic seeks to create cross-cultural alliances, mentoring relationships and social connections built upon personal trust and commmitment to bridging unhealthy divisions in contemporary communities. Mosaic events and conferences feature diverse panels of contributors composed of artists, writers, spiritual leaders, teachers, and community activists. These contributors apply their diverse experiences and traditions to current social conflicts and cultural divisions with the goal of reducing conflicts and healing divisions. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Mosaic seeks to create cross-cultural alliances, mentoring relationships and social connections built upon personal trust and commmitment to bridging unhealthy divisions in contemporary communities. Mosaic events and conferences feature diverse panels of contributors composed of artists, writers, spiritual leaders, teachers, and community activists. These contributors apply their diverse experiences and traditions to current social conflicts and cultural divisions with the goal of reducing conflicts and healing divisions. Mosaic events and conferences feature diverse panels of contributors composed of artists, writers, spiritual leaders, teachers, and community activists. These contributors apply their diverse experiences and traditions to current social conflicts and cultural divisions with the goal of reducing conflicts and healing divisions. Mosaic's voices of community projects represent the stories and voices of those most often avoided and excluded from the public discourse. Each voices program involves retreats where rare and compelling stories are distilled into poetry and then offered at public events that bring those compelling voices to the ears and hearts of our communities. 'voices of youth' - a series of youth and mentor projects that brings young people together with elder mentors in a variety of american communities. These community improvement projects engage participants in artistic forums that foster mentoring relationships and ease existing tensions within the community. 'voices of veterans' - a series of retreats and 'welcome home ceremonies' with veterans returning from the battlefields of iraq and afghanistan. 'youth and mentor conferences' - educational conferences that bring together diverse youth and mentors from community organizations nationwide. 'creative mentoring' - a series of mentor trainings in various u. S. Cities which engage diverse community organizations. 'myth & education projects' - a series of workshops and evening presentations with teachers & community workers focused in art & imagination. Mosaic multicultural foundation has been creating, organizing, and operating community and youth events for nineteen years. 
