---
name: "Wallingford Community Senior Center"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- social
- greek
- technology
ein: 911631962
homepage: "www.wallingfordseniors.org"
address: |
 4649 Sunnyside Ave N, \nSeattle, WA 98103
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Wcsc's exempt purpose is to provide community support (human and social services), with a focus on seniors / older adults. Our mission is to build community across generations and foster healthy, secure, positive aging. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Wcsc's exempt purpose is to provide community support (human and social services), with a focus on seniors / older adults. Our mission is to build community across generations and foster healthy, secure, positive aging. By creating an inclusive, vibrant, age-friendly organization, we provide opportunities for social connection and support, health promotion, learning, and community involvement. Wcsc's program portfolio includes tracks and specific offerings that promote healthy active living, technology learning and access, social and transition support, and lifelong learning. Other programs: wcsc offers a broad array of programs and services of many types. In 2014, program activities were offered on average 82 times each month, for a total of 980 distinct program occurrences / offerings, reaching more than 1,200 older adults. In addition to the 3 largest program areas named below,our portfolio spans health and wellness programs, lifelong learning classes and enrichment activities, computer access, technology education and support, information and assistance regarding resources and aging-relevant topics, games and recreational activities, community-building events, multi-generational activities, and volunteer engagement opportunities. This amount of 'other' program expenses is primarily for personnel and occupancy, not specifically allocated to the 3 major programs named. 
