---
name: "Powerful Voices"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- employment
- social
- women
- greek
- arts
ein: 911679907
homepage: "www.powerfulvoices.org"
address: |
 1620 18th Avenue Suite 100, \nSeattle, WA 98122
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Powerful voices' invites girls to realize their dreams, engage their communities and shape a more just world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Powerful voices provides violence prevention and youth development activities to girls who are socialized and/or identifies as female, ages 12-18. Powerful voices is focused on girls most impacted by opression and violence. Powerful voices also engages allies (adults and young men) who are interested in working in solidarity with girls to create a more just world. Our vision is for all girls to live healthy, personally meaningful lives in a society that values them. Community engagement - powerful voices works within the community on girls' issues to promote equity and make the world a just place for everyone. Community engagement efforts include producing the annual girlvolution conference, providing training on powerful voices curriculum and practices, serving on coalitions and partnering to provide outreach to girls detained in king county juvenile detention. In 2015, the girlvolution conference reached over 280 youth and adult allies. Powerful voices staff provided training to 37 other youth development professionals and trained and supported 12 new adult allies (mentors) and served on three community coalitions. Powerful voices staff facilitated educational and pro-social workshops with 26 young women in detention. 
