---
name: "The Mockingbird Society"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- employment
- social
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 912051340
homepage: "www.mockingbirdsociety.org"
address: |
 2100 24th Avenue South, \nSeattle, WA 98144
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The mission of the mockingbird society is to improve foster care and end youth homelessness by advocating for systems reform based on the personal experiences of children, youth and families impacted by the foster care system and youth who have been homeless. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of the mockingbird society is to improve foster care and end youth homelessness. Our youth programs train young people who have been homeless or in foster care to be their own best advocates. By doing so, they change policies and perceptions that stand in the way of every child having a safe and stable home. Our family programs advocate for innovation in the way services such as foster care are delivered. Together, our solutions focus on improving the social service systems that ultimately serve thousands of children, youth and families each year in washington and beyond. The mockingbird youth network (myn) is a powerful, state-wide coalition of young people aged 13-24 who have been impacted by foster care. The program focuses on youth leadership development, civic engagement, system reform and educating the public on foster care issues. In 2015, 352 youth and young adults participated in activities such as local chapter meetings, leadership trainings and community engagement projects. There are six chapters located in seattle, tacoma, everett, olympia, yakima and spokane and each chapter's youth are actively engaged in shaping a reform agenda. Youth meet regularly with policymakers, participate on issue work groups, speak at community forums and offer creative ideas to improve child welfare systems based on their own experiences in foster care. 
