---
name: "Plymouth Healing Communities"
tags:
- health
- family
- nature
- sports
- social
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 912031385
homepage: "www.plyhc.org"
address: |
 1217 Sixth Avenue, \nSeattle, WA 981013107
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Provides companionship, housing & deep respect to individuals recovering from an acute episode of mental illness. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

By offering a small, neighborhood-scale shelter and companionship to individuals who are recovering from an acute episode of mental illness, plymouth healing communities breaks the cycle of hospitalization and homelessness and provides a positive alternative to living on the street. Plymouth healing communities (phc) was formed to create family residences for persons with mental illness to find a supportive, stable and healing home. Phc operates three houses and one eight unit apartment building to provide housing for persons recovering from mental illness. Phc is a warm, safe place where both residents and companions can pause, reflect and consider their next step in life. The house of healing is our short-term facility for those just released from the hospital. It is a small, referral-based, neighborhood-scale emergency shelter that can accommodate up to four residents at a time. The one-to-one ratio of companions to residents provides the support needed for mental health patients to make the shift from the streets and hospital to permanent housing. Regular evening meals that all house members share are just one of the staples of house of healing life. Agape house, hofmann house, and the argonaut apartments are permanent residences. With support from the community companion, these homes provide a continuation of community and attention, as residents continue down their road to recovery and ongoing community integration. 
