---
name: "CRISTA Ministries"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- nature
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- rehabilitation
- poverty
- arts
ein: 916012289
homepage: "www.crista.org"
address: |
 19303 Fremont Ave N, \nSeattle, WA 981333800
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Crista ministries mission is to love god by serving people, meeting practical and spiritual needs so that those we serve will be built up in love, united in faith and maturing in christ. This is done through long-term health care, education (k-12), camping, broadcasting, relief and development and other means. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Crista ministries' mission is to love god by serving people, meeting practical and spiritual needs so that those we serve will be built up in love, united in faith and maturing in christ. This is done through long term health care, education (k-12), camping, broadcasting, relief and development and other means. Through crista senior living, 1,056 residents were served and $108,307 was provided to assist low income residents to remain in their homes. The nursing center provided 30,864 days of care and crista shores assisted living provided 5,251 days of care for dshs through the washington state medicaid program. Residents, family members, staff and other individuals volunteered 4,676 hours assisting other residents and tutoring elementary students. The cristwood nursing and rehabilitation center was the clinical setting for nursing or nursing assistant students from two local universities and one community college. Senior residents operate a missionary commission which supports faith based volunteers around the world. Approximately 485 community service and faith based meetings occurred in our facilities accomodating residents and community attendees. Approximately one acre of our property is made available as a publicly accessible wetland with interpretive trails highlighting the dyes inlet ecosystem. 
