---
name: "Seattle Neighborhood Group"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- employment
- social
- addiction
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 943098473
homepage: "www.SNGI.org"
address: |
 1810 East Yesler Way, \nSeattle, WA 981225748
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Prevent crime & build community through partnerships with residents, businesses, law enforcement & other organizations. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Seattle neighborhood group's mission is to prevent crime and build community through partnerships with residents, businesses, law enforcement and other organizations. We envision crime-free communities where people work together to solve problems, children play without fear and businesses thrive. The safe communities project emphasizes crime prevention and community building with our most vulnerable communities through collaborative partnerships. We provide leadership development, crime prevention education, grass roots organizing and crime 'hotspot' problem solving. Outcomes of our programs are connecting people to their communities and providing access to community services and activities. We work to reduce the specific community risk factors of community disorganization; perceived availability of drugs and firearms; and laws and norms favorable to drug use. We also work to strengthen the protective factor of neighborhood attachment. Sng provides support at community events, and conducts community education in personal safety, basic 911, neighborhood nuisance problem solving, and crime prevention memos. Crime prevention informational brochures are translated into 11 languages. 
