---
name: "Impact Capital"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 943196958
homepage: "www.ImpactCapital.org"
address: |
 401 2nd Avenue South No 301, \nSeattle, WA 98104
state: "WA"
city: "Seattle"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Leading catalyst in building & advocating for equitable, vibrant, & sustainable communities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Impact capital is a community development financial institution that makes strategic investments in nonprofit organizations, tribal entities, and housing authorities to spur community development; including affordable housing, art and cultural centers, community facilities, and vibrant commercial districts. Our work transforms distressed communities and neighborhoods into healthy ones - good places to live, work, do business, and raise families. Impact capital manages two loan pools that provide loans to nonprofit organizations, housing authorities and tribal entities, for the creation of affordable housing and community facilities. Affordable housing financed by impact capital serves people typically at or below 80% of area median income. Community facilities provide access to services for low and moderate income people. Loans are used to fund property acquisition, predevelopment expenses or to bridge permanent capital. These are often transactions that do not meet the risk profiles of traditional bank lenders. Impact capital was created to provide access to capital and other resources for underserved communities. Our lending provides a foundation for new development that attracts public and private permanent financing and serves as a needed catalyst for development. We help build equitable communities with clean, safe affordable housing, and access to services including parks, schools, and vibrant commercial corridors. In 2014, impact capital closed $6. 1 million in loans which will leverage $91,451,075 in total development costs. These loans will be used to finance the building of 420 units in four counties across washington state. 
