---
name: "Relational Wisdom 360"
tags:
- education
- professional
- religious
- employment
- social
- greek
- arts
ein: 454990562
homepage: "www.rw360.org"
address: |
 4460 Laredo Place, \nBillings, MT 59106
state: "MT"
city: "Billings"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To develop and deliver training and educational resources to help people experience stronger relationships, valued influence, and less conflict in all areas of life, leading to a compelling witness for christ. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To develop and deliver training and educational resources to help people develop stronger relationships, valued influence, and less conflict in all areas of life, leading to a postive witness for christ. Refined relational wisdom seminar and shorter related presentations, and delivered them to 15,589 people in 26 different seminars, conferences, and presentations. This required ongoing studying of the latest theological and psychological research and writing on relationships, including current studies on emotional intelligence, the secular counterpart to relational wisdom. This information was used to refine a god-centered, biblically based, and gospel driven discipleship paradigm, which was presented in a one day seminar. The seminar was taught over 22 times around the country, with feedback being used to further refine the material. One of the key accomplishments was the refinement of four simple acrostics that summarize the essence of relational wisdom in practical forms that can be easily applied in everyday life. Our long term goal is to see thousands of pastors and lay christians teaching this material in their homes, churches, and places of work. In addition to producing a live and online seminar and detailed study guide, we upgraded a companion personal study course that people could download for free from our website and use to dig deeper into the theology and psychology of relational wisdom, and apply it every day in their lives. 
