---
name: "Grace Montessori Academy Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- gender
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
ein: 611513394
homepage: "www.gmamt.org"
address: |
 4809 Grand Avenue, \nBillings, MT 59106
state: "MT"
city: "Billings"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Christian, non-profit school focused on educating children from pre-school to upper elementary. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Grace montessori academy is a nurturing, christian, educational community. We teach the child a love for learning and moral principles that will assist the child in developing their knowledge, self-discipline and self-esteem allowing them to realize and achieve their individual potential. We teach the child personal responsibility, tolerance, mentoring others and to contribute their unique gifts to the world. We teach the child to love christ and desire to become his disciple in the world. We teach children from ages 3 to 12. We financially assist those who cannot afford to attend. We reach out to all people in the community. We aspire to disciple beyond the children by reaching out as a positive influence to the families. We aspire to be a christian montessori teacher training center. We are an exemplary christian school known for pacesetting excellence with impeccable character as an organization. Grace montessori academy is a non-denominational christian montessori school dedicated to providing children a hands-on, independent learning environment that instills the love of learning. The academy served 169 students during the fiscal year. Our program provides students the tools to acquire inner self-discipline and self-esteem; to achieve academic excellence; to develop a love for life long learning; to learn moral and spiritual principles; and to achieve their highest potential. Through the academic and experiential learning process developed by dr. Maria montessori and enhanced by a christian based foundation, students will learn to care for and respect themselves, others, and the environment. The unique cycle of learning provided at grace montessori academy is designed to take advantage of the child's sensitive periods that occur between the ages of three to six and six to nine when children absorb information and profound life understandings from a specifically ordered and enriched environment. Grace montessori academy creates a christian, nurturing atmosphere where each child is treated with sensitivity, honesty and respect. In the early childhood class, the children learn to take responsibility for themselves and for each other. They learn to get along with children of different ages and abilities, to respect each other's work and work space, and to treat each other with courtesy. The classroom becomes a thriving community where children are treated with respect and dignity and want to treat others with the same respect and dignity. The elementary-aged child is in a period of heightened social development. Multi-aged groupings mean more small-group options relative to ability and interest. These children are also extremely curious about the world around them and mechanics of how things work. Grace montessori academy does not discriminate on the basis of gender, race, color, national origin, disability, religion or age in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, and all other school-administered programs. Our teachers emphasize moral instruction, kindness, and compassion to all children. 
