---
name: "The Youth Connection Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- poverty
- arts
ein: 020647494
homepage: "www.theyouthconnection.org"
address: |
 4777 E Outer Drive, \nDetroit, MI 48234
state: "MI"
city: "Detroit"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "We are committed to provide high quality programs, advocacy and supportive services. We connect youth, young adults and their families in metro detroit to resources and opportunities that enrich their lives with special attention to those who are underserved. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

We are committed to provide high quality programs, advocacy and supportive services. We connect youth, young adults and their families in metro detroit to resources and opportunities that enrich their lives with special attention to those who are underserved. Dnr summer youth employment program. The youth connection, in partnership with the michigan department of dnr and economic development corporation, provides paid summer internships, career training, and outdoor activities program for 120 youth ages 16 19 interested in outdoor careers. Youth learned expectations and skills necessary to succeed by participating in hands on training and exercises directly related to careers. The youth participate in a one week orientation regarding what is expected of them at their job placement and to develop the soft skills (resume writing, interviewing workshops, financial literacy and credit, business attire, etc. ) needed to prepare for a career. Youth were interviewed and gained employment at one of 22 job sites and learned all aspects of career training. In addition to their skill-building and internships, youth also participated in outdoor recreation activities and community service projects. The participants of our program complete archery sessions, hiking, trail maintenance, outdoor sports, and other activities that allow them to experience pure michigan. While camping, they rebuilt picnic tables and rehabbed hiking trails at state parks to give back to the community. 
