---
name: "THE DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS"
tags:
- education
- youth
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 381359510
homepage: "www.dia.org"
address: |
 5200 Woodward Avenue, \nDetroit, MI 482024008
state: "MI"
city: "Detroit"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The dia creates experiences that help each visitor find personal meaning in art. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The dia creates experiences that help each visitor find personal meaning in art. Art acquisitions: acquisitions relate to the acquiring of art by purchase and by gift. Following standard museum accounting practices, the dia recognizes the entire amount as an expense at the time of purchase or gift. During the fiscal year the dia obtained full ownership of the art collection which was previously owned by the city of detroit. On december 10, 2014 the dia entered into various agreements to effectuate what is referred to as the grand bargain agreement. As a result of the grand bargain agreement the dia received the museum and museum assets to be held in perpetual trust for the primary benefit of the residents of the city and tri-counties and citizen of the state of michigan. The museum assets defined in the agreement included the museum's art collection. The grand bargain transaction was accounted for by the dia as an exchange transaction in accordance with asc 958-605. The receipt of the art collection resulted in a change in net assets of $535,141,613. In addition to the art received in the grand bargain, the dia purchased 57 pieces totaling $6,132,052 and received 76 gifts of works of art valued at $1,116,490. Each acquisition was accessioned into the dia's permanent collection. All acquisitions are reviewed by the collections committee and approved by the board of directors and are paid for using restricted funds designated for the acquisition of art. 
