---
name: "Hospice of Michigan Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 382255529
homepage: "WWW.HOM.ORG"
address: |
 400 Mack Avenue, \nDetroit, MI 48201
state: "MI"
city: "Detroit"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Hospice of michigan, inc. Ensures quality of life, comfort, and peace for our patients and provides support for their loved ones during their end-of-life experience. We will serve everyone in our community who needs and seeks our care. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Hospice of michigan, inc. Ensures quality of life, comfort, and peace for our patients and provides support for their loved ones during their end-of-life experience. We will serve everyone in our communities who needs and seeks our care and strive to improve the state of comfort care. (continued in schedule o)
  
  during the year ended december 31, 2014, hom provided $283,000 in charity care. Additional 2014 service accomplishments include: (i) hom maintained 480 volunteers which resulted in approximately 30,000 volunteer hours and a cost savings of $583,000. 23% of our patients utilize volunteers with 38% of the hours devoted to companionship service, 13% devoted to caregiver relief, 3% devoted to bedside death vigils. The other 46% is split between office or administrative support (25%), other patient care related services and community outreach services. There is a continued effort to focus on veterans and hom continues to pursue opportunities to recruit veteran volunteers to provide companionship to veteran patients. As a trend, our volunteer hours are increasing and we expect to see even better results in 2015. We maintain a high engagement with volunteers who in turn better serve those who need our support. (ii) through support from the hospice of michigan institute, volunteer services and marketing staff, each hospice of michigan clinical team has maintained level 4, the highest level, in the 'we honor veterans' program sponsored by the national hospice and palliative care organization and the u. S. Department of veterans affairs (va). This pioneering campaign is designed to improve the services veterans receive from hospice and palliative care providers. Staff education and training are major requirements for an organization to reach each level. Hom was the first organization to achieve statewide level 4 status. There are only 4 other programs in the state who have reached level 4. In june, in honor of the 70th anniversary of d-day, hospice of michigan and the amvets hosted a special pinning ceremony at the wealthy theater where over 50 veterans were honored for their service. (iii) hom provides our patients, our patient's families and families in the communities we serve grief support services through one on one counseling or group sessions. Grief support is not reimbursed by any insurance, and in 2014 hom dedicated approximately $856,000 toward providing this service. Hom grief support memorial programs continue to be a substantial benefit for our communities and families. Memorial services honor sacred space and allow the bereaved to embrace opportunitites to remember. Grief support service managers in the past have provided diverse memorial programs for their communities. Examples of our memorial programs include; -fly and remember held throughout our locations across the state allow attendees to deisgn and fly a memorial kite. A tall ship sailing memorial service for grieving families on the waters of traverse bay is another example of innovative memorial programs that are offered. - camp good grief is a day camp that is offered to children ages 8-17 who have experienced a loss. Children spend the day doing team building activities as well as memorial crafts and group reflection that incorporated grief education and support throughout each activity. - memory bears is where we have volunteer seamstresses sew together bears from articles of clothing of the loved one who was lost. This is then presented to the family and has been well received. We expanded this program statewide in 2014. - programs incorporating self-care, memorial rituals, and staff participation using their own unique talents (singing, instrument playing, poetry, even cooking). In 2014 hom provided grief support services to approximately 6200 caregivers, family or community members - of this 69% were connected to hom with the other 31% coming from elsewhere in the community with no ties to hom. Services offered to the bereaved community through hospice of michigan continue to be robust and wide ranging. (iv) hospice of michigan experienced significant growth with at home choices a care delivery system within the hom continuum of services that focuses on care coordination, case management, and shared decision-making for patients and families who are eligible for end-of-life care but 'may or may not be eligible for hospice. ' the current at home choices program is structured to provide palliative approaches to care for patients with advanced cancers, end-stage lung and heart conditions, and hiv/aids. In addition, the program provides supportive services for patients with progressive, end-stage degenerative and multi-morbidity conditions. Our at home choices program - which serves patients in our statewide communities -encourages and supports patient and family-centered 'choices. ' whereas the current system forces patients and families to choose between continued treatment and supportive care, at home choices eliminates difficult decisions by providing patients and families with a desirable alternative option - to receive supportive care while seeking active treatment for disease conditions. The overall goal of at home choices is to improve access to supportive care and hospice services. There were 367 patients served on the 'choices' program in 2014. (v) one area that continues to be unique to hospice of michigan is our pediatric program, which includes a pediatric hospice program, a pediatric early care program, and a perinatal program. In 2014 hospice of michigan contributed $410,000 to support these three programs due to the fact that there is no reimbursement for peds early care or perinatal services. In 2014, we supported 214 pediatric patients and families in 36 counties throughout the lower pennisula. Pediatric hospice, served 22 patient families. Perinatal care in west michigan cared for 6 patients/families. Our pediatric early care program experienced significant growth, primarily due to the expansion into southeast michigan from the west. By the end of 2014, pec supported 186 patient/families, 113 of them being in southeast. (vi) in 2014, 33% of hospice of michigan employees participated in the annual appeal, contributing over $50,000 to support a number of the organizations significant programs of excellence, including: - open access - at home support - home health aide certification - at home choices - quality of life in addition 426 hours of vacation and float time were donated to the heart from home program to support the emergency time-off bank for employees. (vii) the hospice of michigan institute (homi) had a busy year. On top of training 110 new hires, they redesigned the content and materials combining hospice and at home as well as developed and education plan to meet achc requirements. In conjunction with orientation and continuing education, the institute created and tested a skills/simulation lab at the corporate office. Certified hospice and palliative care nursing assistant certification is extended to all hospice aides at no cost to them. Currently we have 54% of our aides certified. There has also been significant multicultural work being done in se and western michigan to educate staff and care givers on hospice care. 
