---
name: "ARTS & SCRAPS"
tags:
- education
- youth
- elderly
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 382831910
homepage: "http://ArtsAndScraps.org"
address: |
 16135 Harper, \nDetroit, MI 48224
state: "MI"
city: "Detroit"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Arts & scraps annually reimagines 28 tons of recycled industrial materials to inspire all ages to think, create and learn. Our target audience is schools and community organizations serving children in low income neighborhoods. Programs include a community store affordable to all, student and adult workshops at arts & scraps and on location in se michigan, kits using recycled materials for hands on learning and creative stations at public and private events. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Arts & scraps reimagines recycled industrial materials to inspire people of all ages to think, create and learn. It picks up 28 tons of material from 190 se michigan businesses and thousands of individuals donate items. They are processed with 10,000 volunteer hours annually. Programs for all ages are held at the detroit location and at group locations throughout southeast michigan. Arts & scraps maintains a community store with materials affordable to all. Learning packs assembled by volunteers with an emphasis on stem education are sold throughout the united states. Student workshops at arts & scraps and at schools and community organizations throughout se michigan feature hands-on learning in science, math, language arts and social studies. Groups/classes choose from 11 curriculum areas; students learn and create using custom kits in response to the lesson. Challenges are issued to the students in a way they can't be wrong. They must build/invent/create, then justify their answers. They then shop for more materials to take home, either at our store or on the 26' scrapmobile bus. Adult workshops teach hands on learning techniques in core curriculum and help teachers/group leaders/parents understand the value of creativity in learning. 7,700 participants were served. 
