---
name: "Covenant Community Care Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- social
- media
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 383533998
homepage: "www.covenantcommunitycare.org"
address: |
 559 W Grand Blvd, \nDetroit, MI 48216
state: "MI"
city: "Detroit"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Providing integrated, affordable, and quality health care to those who need it most. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of covenant community care is to show and share the love of god, as seen in the good news of jesus christ, by providing integrated, affordable, and quality health care to those who need it most. Covenant community care's medical program provides medical services at six standalone sites throughout the metro detroit area. Five of our sites, including our most recent addition in the joy southfield community of detroit, provide chronic care, preventive services, and some urgent care services for our patients. Chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, depression, asthma, heart disease, hiv, and many others are managed by a multi-disciplinary team of providers, nurses, social workers, benefit coordinators, and even volunteers (who help obtain medications for uninsured patients). Working in close association with community mental health agencies, most sites also have a behavioral health coordinator that functions to streamline, augment, and optimize the mental health services and lifestyle education needed by each patient to identify and help remedy obstacles to compliance. Adults and children of all ages are seen at each of these sites and benefit from these services. We have seen remarkable improvements in the health care for many patients as these multi-disciplinary teams develop and our integrated services with the community mental health community improve and expand. Our sixth site is a school-based clinic that provides critically needed health services year-round to the children and families of their school and surrounding community. In 2014, covenant community care served 9,500 patients with 24,100 visits across our six sites. Of these patients, 35% were without health insurance, creating great obstacles to successful healthy living and the management of their chronic diseases. Our commitment to caring for 'those who need it most' has ensured that our percentage of uninsured patients remains high as we continue to grow. This can present a challenge as the sometimes transient and under-resourced characteristics of this population make medical compliance and follow up, attainment of health goals, and access to services an elusive goal. This is why as a medical program we are always looking for new processes and new partners, like community mental health agencies and other social service organizations, to help us improve how we fulfill our mission of 'showing and sharing the love of god, as seen in the good news of jesus christ, by providing integrated, affordable, and quality health care to those who need it most. '
