---
name: "Comic Relief Inc (Formerly known as America Gives Back)"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 010885377
homepage: "www.comicrelief.org"
address: |
 488 Madison Avenue 10th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Our mission: to drive positive change through the power of entertainment. Our vision: a just world free from poverty. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Comic relief, inc's mission is to drive positive change through the power of entertainment. Comic relief undertakes charitable and educational activities with the aim of eliminating poverty and improving conditions for children and disadvantaged persons in the united states and throughout the world. Comic relief achieves its mission by: 1. Raising awareness of poverty conditions and the issues facing the poor and disadvantaged in the united states and throughout the world. 2. Developing and distributing educational tools and initiatives for school children and teachers in the united states to understand how poverty is perpetuated and the steps that can be taken to eradicate it. 3. Making grants to organizations that are committed to the issues identified by comic relief as having a major effect on the poor and disadvantaged including: the treatment and prevention of hiv/aids and malaria; the education of children and young people; the protection of children at risk. Red nose day is a fundraising campaign run by the non-profit organization comic relief inc. It is part of a global movement that unites celebrities, comedy and the public to raise awareness and money to help children in need in the us and internationally. Red nose day has raised over $1billion dollars globally in the last 25 years. In 2015 red nose day was launched in the us and money raised is used to address the immediate needs of children by making grants to organizations to keep kids safe, healthy and educated. Half of the money distributed is spent in the us and the other half in the poorest communities in latin america, africa and asia. 
