---
name: "World Animal Protection"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 042718182
homepage: "worldanimalprotection.us.org"
address: |
 450 Seventh Avenue Suite 31st fl, \nNew York, NY 10123
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Our vision is a world where animals live free from suffering. We move the world to protect animals. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Our vision is a world where animals live free from suffering. We move the world to protect animals. Animal welfare programs: in 2015, world animal protection improved the welfare of millions of animals around the world, in the wild, in disasters, in farming, in communities, and through our global advocacy. With the help of our supporters, we educated and mobilized people, lobbied and advocated at the highest levels of government and industry, and catalyzed sustainable solutions to protect animals. In the wild: through our wildlife, not entertainers campaign, we built a global movement to end the use of wild animals in cruel tourist attractions such as elephant rides. In 2015, we secured commitments from 83 major travel companies worldwide, including the travel corporation, to end the sale and promotion of elephant rides in their itineraries. And to raise public awareness of the suffering behind the scenes of wildlife tourist attractions, we launched a public service announcement (psa) in the united states. 2015 saw the 10th anniversary of our romania bear sanctuary, run by our partner amp, which provides a safe home for bears rescued from captivity and poor-quality zoos. Our bear sanctuary in pakistan now cares for 34 rescued bears, including many rescued from the cruel sport of bear baiting. And new legislation in pakistans sindh province this year banned the use of bears for entertainment, making it illegal to keep and use bears for baiting, dancing, begging, and in circuses. This follows years of lobbying with our local partners to move the country towards a nationwide ban on the practice of owning wild bears. We continued our work in asia to end cruel bear bile farming. We have capped the number of bears in captivity in south korea by helping to develop government plans that compensate bear farmers who voluntarily sterilize their animals, so that no other bears are born into captivity in the country. More than 91% of captive bears have now been surgically sterilized in south korea. In china, we signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) with the development research center (drc) one of the china central governments leading research institutes through which we will carry out extensive research on the current scale of the bear bile industry. In september, we launched the global ghost gear initiative, a cross-sectoral alliance committed to driving solutions to the problem of lost and abandoned fishing gear, known as ghost gear, worldwide. In may, we teamed up with the gulf of maine lobster foundation and local fishermen to remove 147 derelict traps as well as 1,000 pounds of rope and line from maine waters. In july, we began a 3-year partnership with marine mammals of maine (mmome) to fund a triage center in harpswell, maine, to rescue and stabilize injured or stranded marine animals, providing a critical service for animals along nearly 2,500 miles of coastline. We worked with the alaska department of fish & game to develop a sea lion disentanglement and rescue method, and we sponsored a pinniped rescue workshop in california for marine mammal experts to share learnings on pinniped disentanglement. And to educate the public, we launched an interactive digital game that illustrates the dangers of ghost gear for marine animals. In disasters: our disaster response team responded to several large-scale disasters in 2015, delivering food and aid to over 1. 3 million animals. Early in 2015, we provided medical supplies for 111,840 animals affected by severe flooding in malawi. In march, tropical cyclone pam was the worst natural disaster in vanuatus history, leaving some 399,000 livestock injured and vulnerable to disease. We deployed to the country in the cyclones aftermath and provided food for 30,000 farm animals, helping 2,000 households to maintain their livelihoods. And in april and may of 2015, the largest earthquakes in 80 years struck nepal, killing 8,000 people, injuring 18,000, and leaving hundreds of thousands of animals injured and without shelter. Our team deployed to nepal and provided medicines to treat 20,000 local animals. In farming: in 2015, we improved the lives of 90 million farm animals. Our choose cage-free campaign in north america saw major forward movement as numerous food companies, including our partner nestl, publicly committed to transition to sourcing only cage-free eggs in the u. S. In canada, world animal protection joined the national farm animal care council, through which well contribute to canadas national codes of practice for the care and handling of farm animals. In communities: in september 2015, kenya celebrated the one-year anniversary of the launch of its national rabies elimination strategy, the first such strategy in africa. Our work supporting kenya includes a plan to vaccinate 70% of makueni countys 125,000 dogs; we have already vaccinated over 5,000. Also in africa, we have helped the local government in zanzibar introduce dog population management and mass dog vaccination. No rabies cases in humans were reported there in 2015, and no dogs were needlessly killed. In china, we completed the third and final round of a mass dog vaccination pilot project for 80,000 dogs that was launched in 2012. No human rabies cases have been reported in the areas included in the vaccination project. Global advocacy for animals: in october, international negotiations for the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) concluded successfully, presenting a historic opportunity to strengthen international protection for wildlife, wildlife traded illegally, and marine animals through the agreements environment chapter. World animal protection played a role as a member of the trade and environment policy advisory committee (tepac), which advises the united states trade representative (ustr) on issues involving international trade and the environment. We are also a member of the tpp implementation subcommittee, through which we are working with the u. S. Government to ensure that tpp delivers real-world benefits for wildlife. 
