---
name: "The Harmony Program Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- social
- greek
- arts
ein: 050606695
homepage: "www.HarmonyProgram.org"
address: |
 1700 Broadway, \nNew York, NY 10019
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The harmony program believes that music should be an integral part of every child's education and that great expectations lead to even greater achievement. The harmony program was founded to provide students in under-served communities with free instruments, in-depth musical instruction, orchestral training, and access to a variety of cultural experiences. The goals of the harmony program are 1) to use the study of instrumental music to promote self-confidence, creativity, social development and overall academic achievement in the student body it serves, and 2) to train a new generation of instrumental music teachers and encourage their long-term interest in teaching and community outreach. Every year, the harmony program provides each of its young students with the following:up to 400 hours of free music instruction, orchestral performance, music theory and music appreciation, led by trained teaching artists;access to concerts and cultural experiences throughout new york city. The harm"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The harmony program believes that music should be an integral part of every child's education and that great expectations lead to even greater achievement. The harmony program was founded to provide students in under-served communities with free instruments, in-depth musical instruction, orchestral training, and access to a variety of cultural experiences. The goals of the harmony program are 1) to use the study of instrumental music to promote self-confidence, creativity, social development and overall academic achievement in the student body it serves, and 2) to train a new generation of instrumental music teachers and encourage their long-term interest in teaching and community outreach. Every year, the harmony program provides each of its young students with the following:up to 400 hours of free music instruction, orchestral performance, music theory and music appreciation, led by trained teaching artists;access to concerts and cultural experiences throughout new york city. The harm
  
  the harmony program trained approximately 50 teachers to teach daily after school music lessons to approximately 220 children in 12 public schools and 2 community centers in various communities in the city of new york and on long island. Teachers were provided with pre-program training workshops covering classroom management, lesson planning, and the organization's policies and procedures. During the year, they were observed and received one on one feedback from an experienced teaching artist, as well as ongoing professional development support. All students receive musical instruments, books, supplies, daily lessons and tickets to cultural events free of charge. The program presented public performances during the year as well as hosted visiting guest musicians who performed for the students. 
