---
name: "The American Classical Orchestra Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- gender
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 061072470
homepage: "www.aconyc.org"
address: |
 225 West 99th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The american classical orchestra is dedicated to the appreciation and understanding of classical music through educational programs and live programs for both children and adults. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american classical orchestra brings classical masterpieces to life through music performed on original instruments. We embellish the experience with education, history, symbolism, and settings that made this music timeless. Musicians use historic performance technique and pass these skills down to future generations. The american classical orchestra is dedicated to the appreciation and understanding of classical music through educational programs and live performances for both children and adults. 1. The american classical orchestra, inc. ('aco') held four orchestral concerts during the 2014-15 season; 'opening night 30th anniversary concert' on september 23, 2014, 'bach's b minor mass' on november 15, 2014, 'as the masters heard it' on march 12, 2015, and 'spring pastorale' on june 4, 2015. All concerts are conducted by thomas crawford. Some highlights from these performances include: 'opening night 30th anniversary concert' - krista bennion feeney performs the legendary mendelssohn concerto on a historic violin with the same configuration as that of mendelssohns concertmaster ferdinand david in 1845. Mozarts thrilling haffner symphony and the beethoven eighth round out the opening night concert of the acos 30th season. 'bach's in b minor mass' - the acos first-ever performance of johann sebastian bachs towering masterpiece, featuring world-renowned soloists and the acclaimed aco chorus. No other piece of music has engendered such awe and aspiration as the b minor mass, written at the end of the masters life. The best thing about the jubilate is that it brought the aco chorus to the stage and they are as fine as the orchestra. 'as the masters heard it' - the schubert symphony is among the most difficult to play of the classical repertoire, providing an edge-of-your-seat excitement in the finale. Hear the light textures of the period instruments at breakneck speed. Forever the tune-smith, schubert's ninth symphny has literally dozens of melodies and interesting material throughout. 'spring pastorale' - beethovens pastoral symphony is his most famous symphony after the fifth and the ninth. It is most known for its bucolic sound images and terrifying thunderstorm scene. When the beautiful spun melody emerges after the storm, a feeling of joy and peace pervades. Myron lutzke is one of the acos most celebrated musicians. He performs haydns witty cello concerto in c major. 2. Classical music for kidshistory of the classical music for kids program: created in 1999, the goals of cmk have always been to introduce children to classical music in an interactive, age-appropriate, and entertaining format, to provide an intimate experience with acclaimed professional musicians, and to make live performances as accessible as possible to school audiences. The cmk performance is often a students very first experience in the wondrous world of classical music. The teachers guide and the in-school performance enable the teachers and the students to receive an education and appreciation of the music being presented by the american classical orchestra. In 2002, the arts education partnership compiled a series of studies entitled critical links: learning in the arts and student academic and social development. The experiments in this compendium support that exposure to music improves creative writing skills, second language instruction, and, in some cases, self esteem. For the education and out-reach program of classical music for kids, the american classical orchestra was chosen from a national pool of candidates in 2002 to receive the early music americas bringing history alive award. This award is given to the music organization exemplifying excellence in introducing classical music to primary and secondary school students. In 2006, the american classical orchestra received the prestigious national endowment for the arts award, learning in the arts for children and youth. Since the inception of cmk in 1999, the aco has presented in-school programs and family concerts to more than 200,000 children in the tri-state area. The american classical orchestra is attracting, educating, and creating the next generation of classical music lovers. Through the generosity of individual patrons and foundations, the american classical orchestra is able to offer its award winning programs of classical music for kids as sponsored gifts to new york city public schools at no cost. The american classical orchestra works closely with school administrators, school music teachers, subject teachers, and parents at the individual schools. Each school receives a teacher's guide and a cd to prepare the children for the performance. The 2015 classical music for kids program was mozart's fairy-tale opera, 'the magic flute', an interactive concert-presentation introducing students to the world of opera and inviting them to hear selections from one of mozart's favorite works. Each cmk performance is 45 minutes in length and includes a question and answer period at the end. Aco music director and maestro, thomas crawford will narrate the production and will accompany the singers as they perform. Maestro crawford will be joined by coloratura soprano, melanie russell, as the queen of the night; by baritone neil netherly as papageno; and soprano kate bass as pamina - all of whom will be wearing period costumes. The queen of the night will perform the legendary aria'tremble not, my dear son. ' papageno's performance will include the aria the bird catcher i am indeed. ' during the production, the children will enjoy the beauty of the singing, as well as the comical aspects of the opera. As for all presentations of classical music for kids throughout the years, a comprehensive teacher's guide will be distributed to all classroom or music teachers to prepare the students for the 2015 cmk in-school show of mozart's 'the magic flute'. 3. Salon concertsthomas crawford, conductorduring the 2014-2015 season aco held two salon concerts, one on october 21, 2014 and the other on may 7, 2015. In regards to the first of the season, acos principal flautist, sandra miller, plays mozarts flute quartet in d major. Also on the program is mozarts 1788 masterpiece, the divertimento in e-flat, featuring krista bennion feeney on violin. Myron lutzke on cello and david cerutti on viola are the accompanists. Albert einstein says of the divertimento, every note is a contribution to spiritual and sensuous fulfillment in sound. In the may 7, 2015 concert, as soloist on the fortepiano, audrey axinn performs beethoven's virtuosic trio for clarinet, cello, and piano in b-flat major, opus 11 with nina stern on clarinet and myron lutzke on cello as accompanists. Aco's principal string instrumentalists, linda quan and judson griffin on violin, david miller on viola, and myron lutzke on cello, perform haydn's string quartet opus no. 76. 
