---
name: "Brooklyn Kindergarten Society Inc"
tags:
ein: 111631820
homepage: "www.bksny.org"
address: |
 57 Willoughby Street 4th Floor, \nNew York, NY 11201
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Brooklyn kindergarten society provides high quality early childhood education and family support services for children from low-income communities, ensuring that children develop the social, emotional, physical, and cognitive skills they need to succeed. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Since 1891, the mission of the bks has been to ensure that the children in its centers develop the social emotional, physical, & cognitive skills they need to succeed. Bks' approach, which consists of high quality, developmentally appropriate education, for low-income children, marries best educational practices with community services. We seek to involve parents and caregivers as partners, encouraging them to nurture the development of these critical learning skills in their children and empowering them to advocate effectively for their children. Bks is a recognized model of community-based early childhood education, while retaining and deepening its on-the-ground focus on specific brooklyn neighborhoods. Early childcare education program:bks operates five early childhood centers in new york city housing authority (nycha) complexes in bedford-stuyvesant, crown heights and brownsville, brooklyn. The bks program is strategically designed to provide academic and social enrichment that is rooted in best practices and are the hallmarks of high-quality preschools nationally. In the past three years we helped more than 1,000 at-risk children giving them the start they need to be successful in school. When they arrived at our doorstep at age two or three, more than two-thirds of these children were functioning below age-group norms. By age 4, on average, more than 90% of them were at or above age-group norms. These are the children who will succeed in school and go on to contribute to society. Usda/cacfp meal program:through cacfp, enrolled children receive nutritious breakfast, lunch and an afternoon snack each day. 
