---
name: "Resources for Children with Special Needs Inc dba INCLUDEnyc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 112594790
homepage: "www.includenyc.org"
address: |
 116 East 16th Street 5th Fl, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The mission of rcsn is to enhance the quality of life and promote positive outcomes for children and youth, birth through age 26, with disabilities, their parents and families throughout new york city. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of rcsn is to enhance the quality of life and promote positive outcomes for children and youth, birth through age 26, with disabilities, their parents and families throughout new york city. Resources for children with special needs, inc. (d/b/a includenyc, 'includenyc') was founded in 1983 by three mothers of children with disabilities who wanted to create a place where parents could access critical information on disability resources and services. Today, includenyc remains parent-driven and is the primary source for disability information in new york city. Our mission is to promote positive futures and enhance the quality of life for children and youth with disabilities, while promoting meaningful inclusion for them in our broader community. We accomplish this mission in ways that embody our profound belief in our young people, deep respect for who they are, and confidence in their personal abilities. Each day, includenyc provides a multi-lingual resource line, in-depth one-on-one support, and workshops for families and young people with all types of disabilitieslearning, developmental, intellectual, physical, and emotional. All services are available free of charge to families in all five boroughs of new york city. This work empowers families with the knowledge, confidence, and skills needed to make informed decisions, navigate systems, and advocate for themselves and other young people with disabilities. We also support educators, youth workers, and other professionals who serve the disability community. In 2015, includenyc assisted over 5,800 parents and nearly 600 professionals. The following outlines some of our notable accomplishments:direct assistanceour resource line offers in-depth, one-on-one help and referral information in english and spanish with translations in 200 additional languages available. In 2015, our resource line received 2,590 calls (a 14% increase over 2014) providing direct assistance to parents and professionals by telephone, in person, and via email. Our staff helped individuals access appropriate evaluation and diagnostic services, camps and summer programs, afterschool programs, family supports, and related assistance. Last year, we offered on-site direct assistance to parents through our many partnerships in locations throughout the five boroughs so that families can get assistance in their own community. We continue to expand our partnerships with schools and community organizations in order to maximize awareness, access to, and participation in services. Our direct services with youth include two notable programs: project possibility and high school match. Project possibility provides referral and intensive services that help young adults with disabilities, aged 16-26, create and implement a practical plan that will lead to employment, higher education, job training, or other community involvement. High school match helps middle school students with disabilities navigate the complex high school application process by helping them complete their applications more thoughtfully to improve rates of first-round high school placements. Trainingincludenyc workshops provide the most up-to-date information and skills-training necessary for parents, professionals, and young adults to navigate complicated social service and academic systems, including assistance in special education programming, school applications (kindergarten, high school, and college), and busing and specialized transportation. In 2015, includenyc conducted 181 free workshops. Covering a range of disability topics designed specifically to meet parents' most pressing needs, our expert staff led workshops in schools and neighborhood organizations citywide in various languages, including english, spanish, chinese, korean, and american sign language. Information and outreach increasing parental knowledge of the rights, opportunities and vital resources available to their child with disabilities is the cornerstone of includenycs outreach efforts. We recognize that parents and professionals need clear, consistent, and vetted information to make the best decisions possible. Last year, tens of thousands of people relied on includenyc for disability information. Includenycs website offers online videos, tip sheets, useful contacts, and links curated by our expert staff organized in an accessible, family-friendly way. Our weekly navigator and monthly access news aggregates keep nearly 20,000 families and professionals up to date with online news, opinions, resources, and events for the disability community. Our facebook and twitter presence is a key resource for sharing information with our families and partners. Through shares and reposts, many of our facebook communications reach over 15,000 users in a single day. In all, includenyc had nearly 10,200 online resources accessed in 2015, while our youtube channel had 18,880 views. In addition, includenyc print materials are distributed to parents, schools, community centers, pediatricians, libraries, and outreach events throughout the city, allowing us to reach families who may not have access to the internet or social media. In 2015, we distributed over 68,600 print materials. Partnershipsincludenyc is proud of our 142 partnerships with community-based organizations, schools, advisory groups, and issue-oriented coalitions throughout the five boroughs and beyond. These partnerships allow us to be an important voice on disability issues citywide, and reach more families with the information they need to be their own advocates. Several of our most notable partnerships in 2015 include:promise (promoting readiness of minors in supplemental security income), in collaboration with cornell university and the nys office of mental health, is a research study designed to demonstrate the positive effects of transition support services for young people with disabilities who receive ssi, and their families. In 2015, as a parent center provider in new york city, includenyc recruited nearly 1,000 families for a program that will provide increased educational, financial, and social independence and stability to families. Ps 35 is an elementary school in the bronx that has a rapidly growing population of students with disabilities. In order to help these students succeed in school, we provide on-site workshops, coaching, support, and information to educators, parents, community service providers, and local businesses. Parent center collaboratives are designed to work with parents in supporting their child with disabilities. Includenyc is a member of the federally-funded parent training and information center (ptic) collaborative, providing disability services for new york city and long island. We are the new york state-funded special education parent center in four new york city boroughs: manhattan, bronx, brooklyn, and queens. We were awarded the most contracts for these services of any nonprofit in the state. Furthermore, includenyc is the federal rehabilitative services administration parent training and information center for new york city and new york state, in partnership with two other nonprofits in upstate new york. Citywide eventsummer fun & more is the largest resource fair for providers of disability services in new york city. In 2015, summer fun & more featured 82 vendors who tabled at the event and provided information on year-round social and recreational opportunities for young people with disabilities. This was a 95% increase in vendor participation over the previous year. Convening world-famous cultural institutions, camps, independent nonprofits, and government organizations demonstrates the growing access for young people and their families who may not have known these programs existed or welcomed them. 
