---
name: "American Society for Technion - Israel Institute for Technology Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- employment
- social
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 130434195
homepage: "www.ats.org"
address: |
 55 East 59th Street, \nNew York, NY 100221710
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To enable the technion to be among the world's leading institutions improving the well-being of israel and all humanity through leadership in science and technology. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american technion society (ats) has been a vital partner in the technion's unparalleled growth and achievement. As a leading american organization supporting higher education in israel, the ats has pioneered a lasting partnership with the creators of science at technion city in haifa. Supported by a network of dynamic leadership and thousands of dedicated members, the ats is committed to the belief that the future of high technology in israel is at the technion. Since its founding in 1940 ats has raised more than $2 billion for the technion. The andrew and erna viterbi faculty of electrical engineering enjoys a worldwide reputation for leadership in key areas of communications, electronics and computer engineering. The department has extensive relationships with the high-tech industry, and its liaison program includes over 30 member companies. It is the largest engineering department in israel, with more than 2,000 students, and is consistently ranked among the world's top 10 electrical and computer engineering departments. The support provided by the grant will help cement the technion's status as a leader in the fields of electrical engineering and computer engineering. It will also enable the university to recruit and retain first-rate faculty and graduate students in those disciplines, and to upgrade the teaching and research infrastructure. 
