---
name: "College Entrance Examination Board"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 131623965
homepage: "www.collegeboard.org"
address: |
 250 Vesey Street, \nNew York, NY 10281
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Founded in 1900, the college board was created to expand access to higher education. We are a mission-driven, membership organization made up of over 6,000 of the world's leading colleges, schools, and other educational organizations. Through our programs and initiatives, we challenge all students to own their future by practicing hard and taking advantage of every opportunity they earn. We serve more than 7 million students and parents, 23,000 high schools, and 3,900 colleges and universities in over 180 countries, as well as policymakers on the national and state levels. Our primary goals are to improve college and career readiness and increase access to opportunity for all students through focused assessments, rigorous instruction, personalized practice, breaking barriers to college entry, and access to better planning tools and skills needed most for tomorrow's jobs. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Our mission is to serve over 6,000 members and connect more than 7 million students to college success and career opportunity. Through our programs and initiatives, we challenge all students to own their future by practicing hard and taking advantage of every opportunity they earn. Assessments: the college board is committed to delivering focused, clear, and useful assessments that reflect what students are already learning in their classrooms. Working together, college board assessments provide benchmarks and consistent feedback for measuring student progress over time, allowing teachers to accelerate students who are either ahead or behind. Fee waivers and discounts of $78 million were provided to underrepresented students during fy14. * redesigned sat + psat/nmsqt: more than ever, these exams will be focused on the skills and knowledge evidence shows is necessary for college and career success. 1. 67 million students in the class of 2014 took the sat; 47. 5% of test takers were minority students. The college board provided free preparation resources and testing for 23. 6% of sat takers. The psat/nmsqt was taken by over 3. 86 million students in over 24,000 schools. More than 63. 4 million people visited the college board's website to access free information on college preparation and access. * college application fee waivers: every income-eligible senior who takes the sat or an sat subject test using a fee waiver now directly receives four college application fee waivers, which may be used to apply to 2,000 participating colleges. * expanded scholarship opportunities: the college board has partnered with five leading scholarship providers - the american indian graduate center (aigc), asian & pacific islander american scholarship fund (apiasf), hispanic scholarship fund (hsf), jack kent cooke foundation (jkcf), and the united negro college fund (uncf) - to expand access to $185 million in existing scholarship dollars to low-income and underrepresented students. By using information from the psat/nmsqt to enhance recruitment efforts, aigc, apiasf, hsf, the jack kent cooke foundation, and uncf will have access to a better representation of eligible students from high schools across the country. * realize your college potential and apply to 4 or more: using results from the sat and psat/nmsqt, the college board delivers personalized, actionable information about the college application process to high-achieving, low-income students through our realize your college potential initiative. In addition, our apply to 4 or more campaign encourages students to apply to four or more colleges (i. E. , to at least one safety, two good fits, and one reach) and increases their propensity to enroll and succeed in a college that is a good fit for them. * partnership with khan academy: the college board has partnered with khan academy to offer free, personalized, interactive test practice materials for both the redesigned psat/nmsqt and the redesigned sat. Results from the psat/nmsqt will be used to design personalized practice for students. * college-level examination program (clep): clep is the most widely accepted credit-by-examination program, available at more than 2,900 colleges and universities. It enables students of all ages and backgrounds to earn college credit by demonstrating their mastery of college-level material. 
