---
name: "Jewish National Fund (Keren Kayemeth Leisrael) Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131659627
homepage: "www.JNF.org"
address: |
 42 East 69th Street, \nNew York, NY 10021
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Jewish national fund gives all generations of jews a unique voice in building a prosperous future for the land of israel and its people. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Jewish national fund gives all generations of jews a unique voice in building a prosperous future for the land of israel and its people. A nonprofit organization and united nations ngo (non-governmental organization), jewish national fund gives all generations of jews a unique voice in building a prosperous future for the land of israel and its people. Jnf began in 1901 as a dream and vision to reestablish a homeland in israel for jewish people everywhere. Jews the world over collected coins in iconic jnf blue boxes, purchasing land and planting trees until ultimately, their dream of a jewish homeland was a reality. Jnf strives to bring an enhanced quality of life to all of israel's residents and translate these advancements to the world beyond. Jnf is 'greening' the desert with millions of trees, building thousands of parks across israel, creating new communities and cities for generations of israelis to call home, bolstering israel's water supply, helping develop innovative arid agriculture techniques and educating both young and old about the founding and importance of israel and zionism. In 2015 jnf entered its 114th year as one of the world's oldest jewish non-profits and maintains a special and historic connection to israel in that its early work helped create the land and empower its people to later become a nation. Jnf is synonymous with the blue box and planting trees in israel, and has evolved into seven major program areas, each with its own major goals and partnerships within israel to help put into place the projects that are mainly donor-designated. Continuing on work begun in 2013, jnf's one billion dollar campaign over the next decade, has created ground-breaking new ventures focusing on connecting the next generation to israel, building communities in israel's periphery regions of the negev and galilee, and creating infrastructure for ecology, special needs, and heritage preservation. Jnf enhances quality of life by building new communities and bolstering existing ones. Jnf's blueprint negev campaign is helping to bring hundreds of thousands of new residents to the negev desert and its go north campaign is focusing on the communities of northern israel. Jnf's work in community building includes, be'er sheva river park, sderot jnf indoor recreation center, central arava medical center, project wadi attir and halutza. Jnf is the single largest provider of zionist engagement programs in the u. S. And offers myriad ways to connect young americans to israel. Its israel education and advocacy programs that start in kindergarten and continue through college life engage, educate and help students foster a greater connection and commitment to both the land and people of israel. Programming includes, campus fellows, caravan for democracy, alternative break, taglit-birthright israel, faculty fellowship summer institute in israel, alexander muss high school in israel, b'nai mitzvah projects, plant your way to israel and green horizons. With the management of the alexander muss high school in israel, which, since 1972, has been pioneering the academic and experiential study of israel and jewish history at the high school level, jnf sets the goal of further growing and enhancing jewish continuity and israel connectivity amongst youth by offering semester abroad programs to better enrich student knowledge base and to better prepare them for college study. In 2015 jnf announced the new $100 million jnf boruchin israel education advocacy center to focus on israel and zionist educational programming, designed to be one of the most powerful new initiatives in the jewish world. The center will concentrate its resources on advocating for israel, israel education in the diaspora, and countering the bds movement, all with the goal of strengthening the connection of all americans, now and in the future, to the land and people of israel. The center, administered within jnf, was created as a result of an estate gift of the late john and dora boruchin of california. No previous bequest has ever funded such a bold initiative to promote and develop zionist education on this magnitude. As an innovator in ecological development and a pioneer in forest creation and fire prevention, jnf has planted more than 250 million trees all over israel, providing luscious belts of green covering more than 250,000 acres, and protects these areas by battling approximately 1,000 forest fires every year. Areas of work include, forestry, firefighting and fire prevention, agricultural infrastructure development, soil conservation, combating desertification and coral reef restoration. Jnf has bolstered israel's water economy by developing alternative water sources, saving the economy millions, advancing israeli agriculture, and improving water quality. Jnf has built over 250 reservoirs, raising the amount of recycled water in israel to over 85%, and today is focusing on river rehabilitation, education, water purification and research and development. Focus areas include, recycled water reservoirs, river rehabilitation, rainwater harvesting program and constructed wetlands. Jnf sponsors a network of regional agricultural r&d stations across the country where leading scientists and technicians work closely with local farmers, research institutes, and universities to increase agricultural sustainability, profitability, and stability. This work focuses on agricultural r&d stations, solar power innovation, global teaching, desert region development, fish farming and university research. Jnf is committed to the preservation of historical sites associated with israel's rebirth and ensuring that the stories behind them are properly documented and retold for generations to come. This initiative enables jnf to share the past, the important events, the places, the struggles and the fight for israel's independence with israelis and tourists alike. Jnf's historical sites include ayalon institute, atlit 'illegal' immigration detention camp, ammunition hill, yellin house, gush etzion visitor center and tel hai museum. As part of its focus on improving quality of life in israel, jnf is dedicated to ensuring that no member of israeli society is left behind. Through a variety of initiatives, jnf provides cutting-edge rehabilitative services, special education, and medical care for people with special needs and makes its parks, nature trails, and recreational facilities inclusive for visitors of all ability levels. Collaborative partners include aleh negev-nahalat eran, lotem-making nature accessible, red mountain therapeutic riding center at kibbutz grofit and special in uniform. 
