---
name: "Hartley House Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- gender
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131656652
homepage: "www.hartleyhouse.org"
address: |
 413 West 46th Street, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Founded in 1897, hartley house exists to serve school-age children, youth, and seniors in hell's kitchen by enriching their lives, expanding their opportunities, and building a sense of community. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Hartley house has served those who live and work in new york city's hell's kitchen since 1897. Its mission is to respond energetically and creatively to the ever-evolving needs of its neighbors regardless of their age, income, race, gender or sexual orientation. Our programs include educational, creative, recreational, civic and social services. Our size enables us to be both flexible and personalized, and we are always alert to ways in which our programs and services can support or complement one another. Hartley house not only reaches out to neighbors of all backgrounds and ages, but also fosters ongoing connections with them as they pass from one phase of life into another. The well being of each growing, changing person enriches our entire community. Every neighborhood is a complex web of connections among families, friends, neighbors, businesses and organizations. Strengthening these connections is our mission. Children & youth servicesafter school program - from september through june after every school day, children ages 5 to 12 are escorted to hartley house to participate in the after school program (asp) until 6 pm. As of 6/27/2013, our school age child care license was expanded to serve 194 students, and in 2014, and we launched a fruitful collaboration with lincoln square neighborhood center (lsnc) to replicate our after school learning community structure there and expand our capacity to serve more students. Between both sites, we currently serve 175 children. The children enjoy a nutritious snack and a healthy balance of play, academics, and creative projects. In addition to receiving daily homework assistance, students engage in a broad range of age-appropriate activities such as idea labs, computers, drama, music, ceramics, theatre production and rehearsal, art and gym. The asp provides the children of working parents with a safe and warm environment where they are encouraged to develop their social-emotional, academic and creative skills through a project-based learning community (lc) design. Students participated in three lc groups in 2014: jan-mar, apr-june & sept-dec. Lc groups are broken out by grade level, and each group had idea lab, gym, one visual art session (ceramics or arts & crafts) and one performing arts session (drama and music) per week. Idea labs utilize a multi-modal approach, visual, aural, read/write, and kinesthetic sensory modalities vark - fleming and mills (1992) while also considering howard gardner's theory of multiple intelligences. Idea lab lessons are planned by the counselors for each group with supervision from the program director and incorporate readings, writing exercises, literacy games, and creative play to engage the participants in learning about and creating a final project for their topic. Lcs are an essential element of our program model because participants choose their topics of study and the interests of the children in each group drive the curriculum and lesson planning. The lc projects in 2014 included students from lsnc, and culminated in wildly successful joint capstone showcases featuring works of art, performances, and celebratory activities. The lc projects this year saw students learn about space, magnets, and mythological creatures. The showcases were an opportunity for students to demonstrate to parents and fellow students what they had learned about each topic, but also demonstrate new artistic skills they had learned such as costume design, lighting and sound, directing, and writing. Pied piper summer day camp - the pied piper summer day camp provides recreational, social, and educational enrichment for children ages 4 to 12. The camp runs for eight weeks in july and august and serves up to 125 children at any one time, as per our camp permit. It utilizes a balance of educational and recreational activities that consistently challenge children's minds and bodies. This unique method of learn and play successfully fills the gap between the end and start of the school year. The mission of the pied piper summer day camp is to provide a socially and educationally enriching experience for all our campers in a fun, safe, and supportive environment. Weekly books, in-house events, trips, friday competitions, and final-week showcases are all designed to help campers learn new skills, meet new friends, enjoy a variety of activities, and make life-long memories. In 2014, we enrolled 163 children. We granted 21 50% scholarships courtesy of generous donations by the federation of protestant welfare agencies (fpwa), the dj dream fund, and fritz-rumer-cooke co. , inc. Each week, students in summer camp read a different book exploring different cultures around the world. Each arts project was connected to the theme of the book, enhancing students understanding and appreciation of the book and its message. Students also attended field trips to iconic new york city institutions like the museum of natural history, bronx zoo, and yankee stadium, some for the very first time. Grads and teens - our program also develops the skills of those who have aged out of the program and are at least 13 as volunteer grads (growing responsibly and delivering services); grads serve as teaching and counseling assistants for both the after school program and pied piper summer day camp. Pied piper summer day camp can support up to 10 grads per day, and the after school program can support up to four. The grads program also offers a runway to employment at hartley house as a full-fledged counselor. For school year 2014-2015 and summer camp season 2014, nearly 65% of paid counselor positions were occupied by former grads (16 out of 25). This trajectory exposes hartley house students to role models that reflect their community and illustrate potential despite negative statistics on graduation rates and the compounding effects of poverty on social and emotional health and long-term educational/career success. Holzman's happenings provides cultural excursions around new york city for teen girls to broadway shows, museums, the ballet, concerts, films, and other cultural institutions. The initiative aims to keep teens active and joyfully engaged in their own city. Holzman's happenings is made possible by a generous grant from the julie holzman foundation. Julie holzman is committed to expanding opportunities for young women to experience the great cultural opportunities in new york city. Many of these participants have lived in new york city their whole lives, and would never be able to access these transformative experiences without this vital program. 
