---
name: "The Pierpont Morgan Library"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- politics
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- arts
ein: 131624146
homepage: "www.themorgan.org"
address: |
 225 Madison Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10016
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Museum and independent research library (see schedule o)home to one of the world's foremost collections of manuscripts, rare books, music, drawings, and ancient and other works of art, the morgan library & museum offers visitors a stimulating range of exhibitions and public programs while providing researchers with access to its collection, both on site and electronically. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of the morgan library & museum is to preserve, build, study, present, and interpret a collection of extraordinary quality, in order to stimulate enjoyment, excite the imagination, advance learning, and nurture creativity. Curatorial: the morgan library & museum ('the morgan') occupies a midtown manhattan campus comprised of three landmarked buildings that are joined by pavilions constructed of steel-and-glass panels designed by renowned architect renzo piano. The morgan houses one of the world's greatest collections of artistic, literary, musical, and historical works. Included in its holdings are original scores of mozart and beethoven, drawings by rembrandt and rubens, medieval and renaissance works, three gutenberg bibles, literary manuscripts by dickens and twain, and five-thousand-year-old near eastern carvings. The morgan recorded over 169,000 visitors in fiscal year 2015, primarily for a wide variety of changing exhibitions encompassing works from the morgan's permanent collection and from other museums and libraries in the u. S. And abroad. The morgan's curators plan the exhibitions, oversee the permanent collection, prepare exhibition and collection-related catalogs, organize symposia, host graduate seminars, and provide research and other services to the scholarly community. The extraordinary group of medieval and renaissance manuscripts; printed books and bindings; literary, historical, and music manuscripts; drawings and prints; and ancient cylinder seals that j. Pierpont morgan brought together were among the first important collections of their kind in america and form what is today the core of the morgan's holdings. (the collection now includes photography and modern and contemporary drawings as well. ) in overall quality and importance, the collections are among the finest in the world. They now number more than 500,000 objects and are distinguished by the high percentage of items that are unique or exceptionally rare. The morgan continues to acquire in the fields established by pierpont morgan and is one of only a handful of american institutions devoted to these specialized areas. In 2011, the morgan announced the opening of the drawing institute. The drawing institute is devoted to the interpretation, conservation, and theory of old master and modern drawing with the goal of stimulating new lines of investigation and discourse. The drawing institute supports research through annual fellowships; publications; small, focused exhibitions; and an ongoing series of symposia, seminars, and lectures. 
