---
name: "Junior League of the City of New York Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131624066
homepage: "www.nyjl.org"
address: |
 130 East 80th Street, \nNew York, NY 10075
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The new york junior league is an organization of women committed to promoting volunteerism, developing the potential of women, and improving communities through the effective action and leadership of trained volunteers. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The new york junior league is an organization of women committed to promoting volunteerism, developing the potential of women, and improving communities through the effective action and leadership of trained volunteers. Its purpose is exclusively education and charitable. The junior league welcomes all women who value our mission. We are committed to inclusive environments of diverse individuals, organizations, and communities. The new york junior league has been a leader in identifying and responding to vital needs of new yorkers since its founding in 1901. In 2015, more than 2700 volunteers collectively donated over 250,000 hours of service to better the lives of women and children in new york city. Through direct service, advocacy and collaboration with more than 20 other community organizations, the new york junior league embodies a positive force for change within the communities it serves. In fy 2015, the new york junior league focused on four area of need: adult education and mentoring -- designed to help adults gain access to education and health services that will assist them in living productive lives and also provide support as they face unique challenges. Childrens education provides young new yorkers and their families with tools and opportunities to empower themselves and their communities through a variety of life skills workshops and educational support such as tutoring in math, reading and writing. To assist community organizations in providing an environment conducive to the workshops and education, the new york junior leagues signature project community improvement project (cip) renovates one public space each year. *child health and welfare - provides guidance and support to at-risk children and teens through mentoring. Two signature projects help to support this objective: community health access module program (champ)** and cooking and health education for families (chef). *** culture and the arts - provides arts and educational support to underserved children through youth focused arts and music program and creates safe places for children to play through the new york junior leagues signature playground improvement project****. Signature projects* community improvement project (cip) is in its 4th year of adopting a nonprofit facility such as a public school classroom, a senior center, a library or a community center for a dramatic physical makeover. In fiscal year 2015, volunteers renovated a community room at union settlement investing over 500 volunteer hours and $50,000 in materials. ** community health access module program (champ) is in its 20th year of presenting preventive health education programs/workshops to the new york city community. Topics range from childhood obesity and diabetes to stress management and domestic violence. During this fiscal year, new york junior league volunteers presented 86 workshops for nearly 600 clients. *** cooking and health education for families (chef) seeks to empower families to make life-long, healthy lifestyle choices. Through weekly workshops, families are provided with easy to understand nutritional information. Volunteers prepare meals with families that are healthy, easy to make and affordable. They also provide fitness activities that are adaptable for a wide range of ages and fitness levels. During fiscal year 2015, volunteers facilitated 96 workshops for 1042 clients. **** playground improvement project (pip) has helped transform manhattans playgrounds and parks for 25 years. The new york junior league works in partnership with the new york city department of parks and recreation to create bright, vibrant and safe play spaces for the citys children and families. In fiscal year 2015, over 1000 new york junior league and community volunteers dedicated nearly 5000 volunteer hours to revitalize columbus park and foley square. In addition the new york junior league invested more than $92,000 in plantings, paint, and equipment (including environmentally positive big belly trash receptacles). 
