---
name: "Christian Herald Association Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131617086
homepage: "www.bowery.org"
address: |
 432 Park Ave South 3rd Floor, \nNew York, NY 10016
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Minister to those in poverty cycles & see their lives transformed to eternal life through christ"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Christian herald association (cha), doing business as the bowery mission, has served new yorkers in need since 1879. Our goal is simple: to be the most effective provider of compassionate care and life transformation for hurting people in new york city. (see sch o)
  
  the bowery mission - cha offers compassionate care to meet the immediate physical and emotional needs of each guest. The following services are offered to both men and women, free of charge: chapel services three times a day; cooked meals three times a day; daily overnight shelter in the winter; showers, haircuts, and clothing; crisis intervention counseling; a weekly medical clinic and monthly optometric clinic; and daily outreaches to street corners and parks in manhattan and brooklyn. Each service we provide is an invitation to a deeper life change. We facilitate life transformation in our residential recovery programs for both men and women, which incorporate one-on-one and group counseling; addiction recovery and family restoration programs; career centers offering tutoring, computer and vocational skills training, and job preparation; and participation in daily work, worship, and bible studies. In 2015,49 men and women graduated from our men's and women's residential recovery programs. Each graduate exhibited specific evidences of future success by which we measure progress. In 2015, in addition to our 49 graduates, the bowery mission provided approximately 406,000 meals, 44,700 bags of groceries, 91,500 nights of shelter, and 44,100 articles of clothing, as well as showers, haircuts, and 673 professional doctor's appointments and eye examinations at our in-house clinic. Our work was supported by more than 30,000 donors, 44,000 volunteer hours, and $3. 2 million of noncash donations. Volunteers prepare meals and provide other basic services; serve as teachers, mentors, and tutors; offer professional services ranging from medical care to legal counseling; and raise financial and in-kind support for the bowery mission. 
