---
name: "Jewish Home Lifecare Manhattan"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131624033
homepage: "www.jewishhome.org"
address: |
 120 West 106th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Jewish home lifecare, manhattan is a not-for-profit organization whose mission is to support the health, individuality and dignity of the individuals for whom we care. We maintain a tailored continuum of care that is person-directed at every level. Our goal is to enable each individual to live safely and productively in our facility or in their own home in the community. Every program and service at jewish home lifecare manhattan strives to achieve this goal with dignity and compassion. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Jewish home lifecare, manhattan is a not-for-profit organization whose mission is to support the health, individuality and dignity of the individuals for whom we care. We maintain a tailored continuum of care that is person-directed at every level. Our goal is to enable each individual to live safely and productively in our facility or in their own home in the community. Every program and service at jewish home lifecare manhattan strives to achieve this goal with dignity and compassion. See schedule ojewish home lifecare, manhattan is a 514-bed facility providing long-term care and skilled nursing, post acute care and rehabilitation, alzheimer's disease/memory care communities, adult day healthcare programs, pain management and palliative care, social services and religious and lifestyle programs. Jewish home expanded its 25-bed post cardiac rehabilitation unit to a cardio pulmonary specialty unit and now has 38 beds in manhattan dedicated to state-of-the-art cardiopulmonary rehabilitation. In addition to a full range of cardiac rehabilitation, treatment capabilities have expanded to cover pulmonary conditions including copd, pre and post lung transplantation, and restrictive lung diseases from interstitial lung disease, pulmonary fibrosis to obesity. The unit was initially launched in october, 2013 as a 25-bed cardiac post-acute rehabilitation, developed in collaboration with nyu langone medical center. In 2014, the center for advanced rehabilitation medicine opened offering a 24-hour a day program supported by a team of physical and occupational therapists, nurses, nurses' aides and physicians, all specially trained to ensure a fully integrated plan so the patient can return home as quickly as possible. It is designed for individuals with a wide range of orthopedic and musculoskeletal conditions. This 22 bed unit is in collaboration with the mount sinai hospital. Jewish home lifecare manhattan has been located on the upper west side for 130 years. We are planning to build a new facility nearby to replace the current aging structures. Working in conjunction with the green house project, jewish home will radically transform traditional long-term care by creating a supportive home environment that focuses on the needs of the individual rather than the operational needs of the institution. The living center of manhattan will ultimately feature a short term post-acute rehabilitation center as well as long-term care living spaces designed in accordance with the green house model of care that function as private residences. This will be the new model of excellence in eldercare. In the new building, residents will live in households that embrace person-directed care. These households will include comfortable living rooms, open kitchens, communal dining rooms, and private bedrooms and bathrooms with showers. The building will feature public areas for intergenerational programs, community activities, a cafe and access to welcoming public gardens. In 2014, 417 adult and youth volunteers gave over 27,305 hours of service (there were 2,478 one-time volunteers, 417 regular volunteers) helping to provide care and activities that enhance residents' lives. Coming from schools, religious organizations, businesses and other groups from around the neighborhood and the city, the volunteers help to build bonds between the elders and the community. Jewish home lifecare manhattan runs the innovative geriatric career development (gcd) program to provide at-risk high school students with educational skills to graduate high school and matriculate to college as well as career skills that will enable them to be employed in the healthcare industry. The 8-year old gcd program is an innovative program that provides local youth ages 14-23 to gain first-hand experience and training in the field of aging. The gcd program addresses the critical shortage of professionals entering the field of healthcare by providing young people with a head start on allied healthcare careers. It also offers intergenerational enrichment for youth and elders. A meaningful experience with an elder mentor helps students gain compassion and understanding. In 2014, 220 students participated and 97% of 12th grade students were accepted to college. The gcd program has received critical acclaim from the media and has received multiple recognition awards and grants from the nyc department for the aging and other new york city agencies. 2248 elders were served at jewish home lifecare, manhattan in 2014: 594 in long term care and 1654 in sub acute; approximately 70% of those receiving nursing care or rehabilitation therapies were medicaid or medicaid managed care beneficiaries. 
