---
name: "James Lenox House Association Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131624148
homepage: "www.jlhainc.org"
address: |
 49 East 73rd Street, \nNew York, NY 10021
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "James lenox house association provides housing and quality supportive services to older adults in two residences on manhattan's upper east side: james lenox house and carnegie east house. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

James lenox house association provides housing and quality supportive services to older adults in two residences on manhattan's upper east side: james lenox house and carnegie east house. James lenox house, inc. Shares common board members with the association. The association provides quality supportive services to the residents of james lenox house and provides rental subsidies to those residents in severe economic need. The association pays for the cost of certain james lenox house staff members. The association is the sole member of carnegie east house housing development fund company, inc. And pays for certain organizational costs associated with it. Resident services program: james lenox house association provided direct services to its residents at james lenox house through its resident services program. The association provided nightly movies, concerts, assistance with personal computers, exercise and yoga classes, celebrations of special holidays, social work staff, interfaith chaplaincy, health, wellness and safety seminars, occasional social, travel and theater events and maintained the beautiful library on the first floor of james lenox house. All of these services were provided by james lenox house association at no cost to our residents. 
