---
name: "Children of Bellevue Inc"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 131679615
homepage: "www.childrenofbellevue.org"
address: |
 462 First Avenue No ME15, \nNew York, NY 10016
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Children of bellevue is a non-profit organization founded in 1949 to initiate, fund and develop special programs and to act as an advocate for children and their families within bellevue hospital center. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Children of bellevue is a non-profit organization founded in 1949 to initiate, fund and develop special programs and to act as an advocate for children and their families within bellevue hospital center. Child protection and developmentthe child protection program at bellevue hospital center has been providing comprehensive medical and psychosocial intervention to child victims of abuse and neglect and their families for over 30 years. Margaret t. Mchugh, m. D. , m. P. H. , first developed and initiated the practices at bellevue that have become new york's statewide protocols for the identification and treatment of child abuse and neglect in hospital settings. Like all cob programs, the cpdc is a partnership between children of bellevue and bellevue hospital center. The frances l. Loeb center, located on the first floor of bellevue hospital, is the heart of all of cob's child protection programs. It is a safe haven for doctors, nurses, social workers, patients and their families to come and discuss issues. As seen on law and order: svu there are special interview rooms where a child can be interviewed by a trained expert while people from other agencies observe through one-way glass. This prevents a child from reliving an ordeal more times than necessary. In other child protection programs, there can be up to 15 professionals who speak with the child; at the loeb center there is just one. 
