---
name: "American Jewish Historical Society"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- nature
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 131764804
homepage: "www.ajhs.org"
address: |
 15 west 16th street - 5th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10011
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Ajhs provides access to over 25 million documents as well as books, photographs and artifacts reflecting the history of the jewish presence in the u. S. From 1654 to the present. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american jewish historical society is the oldest ethnic, cultural archive in the united states. Ajhs provides access to more than 25 million documents and 50,000 books, photographs, art and artifacts that reflect the history of the jewish presence in the united states from 1654 to the present. At our home on west 16th street in downtown manhattan, as well as in our boston branch on newbury street, ajhs illuminates american jewish history through our many archival treasures, scholarship, exhibitions and public programs. Among the treasures of this heritage are the handwritten original of emma lazarus' the new colossus, which graces the statue of liberty; records of the nation's leading jewish communal organizations; and important collections in the fields of education, philanthropy, science, sports, business and the arts. Ajhs is the future of the american jewish past. Library and archive - the organization welcomes all researchers who wish to conduct research on american jewish life from first arrival in the americas to the present day. The library consists of approximately 50,000 volumes, including both books and serials (journals and periodicals). The organization houses approximately 1,500 archival collections and has developed finding aids for its personal and institutional holdings, and they are available online. 
