---
name: "UNITED STATES FUND FOR UNICEF"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131760110
homepage: "www.unicefusa.org"
address: |
 125 Maiden Lane 10th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10038
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The organization's mission is to support programs through fundraising, advocacy and education that provide lifesaving medicines, better nutrition, clean water, quality basic education and emergency relief to children, women and communities in over 150 countries and territories. The organization partners in coordination and planning with voluntary agencies engaged in child relief to create a better world for children. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The organization's mission is to support programs through fundraising, advocacy and education that provide lifesaving medicines, better nutrition, clean water, quality basic education and emergency relief to children, women and communities in over 150 countries and territories. The organization partners, in coordination and planning, with voluntary agencies engaged in child relief to create a better world for children. Public information: the usf has reached hundreds of thousands of supporters through issue oriented videos, television and public radio service announcements, a variety of publications, the internet via our website (www. Unicefusa. Org) and other mobile devices. The various usf communication teams work hard to educate the public about the challenges facing the worlds children which is the global mission of unicef. This year millions of children joined adult volunteers to support our trademark fundraiser trick or treat for unicef. Tens of thousands of companies and individuals were informed about unicef through the greeting cards program, the tap project and various special events. Educators using teachunicef resources to increase awareness of the programs and activities of unicef. Through the unicef kid power program, kids are empowered to help other kids by being active, they can help feed hungry children. Every kid who participated in the unicef kid power program received a blue band that they wore all the time. The band tracked how many steps these children took through out the day. Those steps earned kid power points used to unlock ready to use therapeutic food to help save children's lives. 
