---
name: "American Council on Germany Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- politics
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 131889074
homepage: "www.acgusa.org"
address: |
 14 East 60th Street Suite 1000, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The american council on germany (acg) is an independent, nonpartisan nonprofit organization which promotes dialogue among leaders from business, government, and the media in the united states and europe. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american council on germany (acg) is an independent, nonpartisan nonprofit organization which promotes dialogue among leaders from business, government, and the media in the united states and europe. The acg strengthens transatlantic understanding and coordinates policy initiatives on key issues in the post-september 11th world. The acg was incorporated in 1952 in new york to encourage reconciliation and understanding following the two disastrous wars in the first half of the 20th century. Among its early leaders were john j. And ellen mccloy, general lucius d. Clay, christopher emmet, joseph kaskell, george n. Shuster, and eric m. Warburg. Because of their vision of transatlantic cooperation, the council has served as a key bridge between germany and the united states for more than 60 years. In the 21st century, transatlantic cooperation on a range of global economic, political, and social issues is more important than ever. As the european union continues to evolve, the acg provi
  
  i. Policy discussionsthe american council on germany endeavors to expose a wide audience to economic, political, and social issues of common concern on both sides of the atlantic through its activities in new york city and at its eric m. Warburg chapters around the country. The acg provides businesspeople, policymakers, academics, and tomorrow's leaders on the eastern seaboard and in america's heartland alike with insights into german and european issues, as well as today's wide array of global challenges. The american council on germany's policy program series in new york encompasses events with prominent officials, analysts, and other influential figures in larger, lecture-style discussion programs and smaller, high-level briefings. About 25 events are held in new york annually, providing a cohesive overview of timely issues of transatlantic and international relevance, from politics and security to economics and finance. The acg also holds regular events in washington, d. C. , in an effort to keep young leader alumni and acg members in the region engaged in transatlantic affairs. In addition, the council offers specialized lecture series on an ongoing basis: the mccloy lecture series, the arthur f. Burns memorial lecture, the garrick utley lecture series on global media issues, and the transatlantic global agenda series. The acg's 19 eric m. Warburg chapters are located in the following cities: alexandria, atlanta, boca raton, boston, charlotte, chicago, dallas, denver, indianapolis, madison, minneapolis/st. Paul, nashville, philadelphia, phoenix, pittsburgh, st. Louis, san diego, san francisco, and seattle. The program was inaugurated in 1992, in order to reach beyond the business community in new york and the policy community in washington, d. C. , by creating a forum for the discussion of transatlantic business and political affairs in other cities across the country. This unique nationwide outreach program is intended to encourage discussion and exchange among the professional community in each chapter city. Government officials, politicians, business leaders, journalists, and policy analysts have been among those to speak at chapter events. Ii. Young leaders conferencesthe american council on germany reaches out to the next generation of decision-makers and opinion leaders by organizing conferences to familiarize them with key transatlantic issues and to enable them to establish a network of contacts across the atlantic. The main goals of the acg's young leaders programs are to provide a forum for bright, informed, and sophisticated young professionals to discuss major issues in an informal setting; to encourage participants to deal frankly with the issues on their own terms, and to explore and debate their differences and common interests; and to create an enduring community of leaders who are engaged and committed to strengthening the transatlantic partnership. The week long american-german young leaders conferences bring together up to 50 germans and americans and take place on an annual basis. The relationships formed during the young leaders' brief time together serve as a valuable investment in the transatlantic relationship. Alumni have gone on to become high-ranking members of the u. S. And german governments; congress and the bundestag; the european parliament; local city governments; military leaders; and editorial writers. Iii. Fellowshipssince the early 1990s, the acg has given more than 1,000 american and german journalists, scholars, and other mid-career professionals in a variety of fields the opportunity to travel overseas and broaden their personal and professional horizons under the auspices of its fellowship programs. Today, about 30 americans and germans travel each year as fellows, gaining a better understanding of how issues are approached on the other side of the atlantic and forging lasting connections with their transatlantic counterparts and fellowship alumni. In 2014, the acg expanded the scope of its mccloy fellowship offerings to include funding for a wider range of research topics geared toward participants from a broader set of professional backgrounds. The mccloy fellowships are open to individuals from nonprofits, think tanks, law, journalism, the public sector, and cultural organizations in relatively early stages of their careers. Mid-career professionals in the fields of urban affairs are also invited to draw upon the local expertise of their transatlantic counterparts and cull best practices overseas through mccloy fellowships in urban affairs. The anna-maria and stephen m. Kellen fellowships allow berlin-based journalists to conduct research in the united states. The acg also supports the work of promising american scholars who are studying important elements of the transatlantic relationship from both historical and contemporary standpoints through the dr. Guido goldman fellowship for the study of german and european economic and international affairs and the dr. Richard m. Hunt fellowship for the study of german politics, society, and culture. The fellowships also represent a long-lasting investment in the future of the transatlantic relationship. 
