---
name: "The King's College"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- arts
ein: 131810448
homepage: "www.tkc.edu"
address: |
 56 Broadway, \nNew York, NY 10004
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Christian college preparing students for principled leadership around the world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

See schedule o
  
  education of students - the college had enrollment of 482 degree seeking students for fall 2014 and 446 degree seeking students for spring 2015. Through its commitment to the truths of christianity and a biblical worldview, the king's college seeks to transform society by preparing students for careers in which they help to shape and eventually to lead strategic public and private institutions, and by supporting faculty members as they directly engage culture through writing and speaking publicly on critical issues. (description continues on schedule o)at the king's college, we seek to understand society, to strengthen and apply our intellect, and to develop christian character, so that we may challenge, change, and improve our culture. For four years, our students are shaped by a relevant and sophisticated biblical worldview. Students become persuasive, influential graduates who communicate with clarity and force and who succeed in challenging professions. This is accomplished through our core curriculum and major courses leading to degrees in politics, philosophy and economics; media, culture and the arts; finance; business management; and religious and theological studies. We educate young leaders to seamlessly integrate their faith, ethics, and morality into their lives and careers. Students are immersed in challenging academic and spiritual study that demands thinking, communicating, and problem-solving with the mind, heart, and soul. We require engagement with complex ideas to guide the strategic institutions of society - government, commerce, law, media, civil society, education, the arts, and the church. We participate in a demanding curriculum and present unique opportunities to students in the heart of new york city. We are not a college for the timid soul - we value bravery, commitment, and action. 
