---
name: "Bloomingdale School of Music"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 132562192
homepage: "www.bsmny.org"
address: |
 323 West 108th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The bloomingdale school of music's primary exempt purpose is to provide access to high-quality music services at a reasonable cost, primarily to the residents of new york city, regardless of economic status, ability level, ethnicity, or religious affiliation. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The bloomingdale school of music's primary exempt purpose is to provide access to high-quality music services at a reasonable cost, primarily to the residents of new york city, regardless of economic status, ability level, ethnicity, or religious affiliation. The after school and weekend program provides private and group instruction to nearly 700 students weekly on more than 20 instruments, among them cello, clarinet, flute, guitar, percussion, piano, saxophone, trombone, violin, and voice. Students are as young as three months old in babys first music class and range up to retired adults. The music access project provides precollege preparation and training for talented under-served, highly-motivated high school aged students. Students receive a comprehensive music education including a 60-minute private lesson, 90-minute chamber music coaching, weekly orchestra or jazz ensemble rehearsal and theory classes, and special biweekly workshops. Over 175 alumni have graduated and gone on to receive degrees in and outside of music. They work as performing musicians, administrators in arts organizations, and teach music in the new york city public schools. They are also scientists, doctors, business leaders, and more. Students work closely with map director brandon vazquez, an alumnus of the program. Map serves between 18 and 26 students annually. Project bridge is a program that aims to support nyc public school students and teachers in existing instrumental programs in secondary schools. Participating students receive a free weekly 45-minute private instrument lesson throughout the year at bloomingdale. Instruction is designed to reinforce and support the work being done by the public school teacher. Concerts and festivals in the community presents about 80 concerts and festivals and serves over 4,000 people over the course of the year. Faculty concerts offer programs and themes that visit both contemporary, classical and jazz music worlds. Festivals bring together students from across studios for piano, guitar, voice, percussion, and strings to perform, have workshops, and celebrate community. Bsmny. Org is a mission-driven community-oriented internet website that extends bloomingdales mission to the internet. Last year, the site registered 246,639 hits, where people registered for lessons, browsed faculty biographies and performance calendars, learned about musical instruments interactively, and read features highlighting specific musical topics of interest. Theory in a box (tiab) is a self-directed online intermediate music theory class, developed and produced by bloomingdale school of music. Theory in a box covers topics such as rhythm, meter, and intervals. Each chapter has an introductory movie, several lessons, review, worksheets, interactive trainers, practice quizzes, and a final exam. Students have access to a theory help desk staffed by a bloomingdale instructor. Since its launch in 2008, tiab has served students in 39 states, and canadian provinces. The bloomingdale student new music project is a series of commissions, collaborations, web features, and performance that promotes the process of creating original music among children. The project commissions a professional composer to create new works for children; in addition, young composers at bloomingdale, some as young as six years old, write music that is played by other children or faculty at the projects annual culminating concert, album for the young. For both students and composers the student new music project opens up a window into the other's working methods and creative process. 
