---
name: "Harlem School of the Arts Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- politics
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 132552500
homepage: "www.harlemschoolofthearts.org"
address: |
 645 St Nicholas Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10030
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The harlem school of the arts' mission is to empower and enrich young people and adults from harlem and beyond through direct exposure to, and training in, the core disciplines of dance, music, theater and visual arts. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The harlem school of the arts' mission is to empower and enrich young people and adults from harlem and beyond through direct exposure to, and training in, the core disciplines of dance, music, theater and visual arts. Overviewduring fiscal year 2015 (july 1, 2014 to june 30, 2015) the harlem school of the arts (hsa) raised over over 2 million dollars to sustain its vision of providing new york city area children and their families with access to arts education regardless of financial background through courses taught by skilled teaching artists and professional and student performances at hsas facility and in new york city schools. The hsa community encompasses students, families, neighbors, and its board of 21 committed directors whose diverse backgrounds in art, finance, and corporate social responsibility help inform executive strategy, alongside a senior team of veteran artistic administrators who oversee day-to-day operations. Over 6,000 children and families benefit from hsas artistic programming, including free music festivals, lectures, master classes, and affordable theatre performances, made possibly by support from the city of new york, the herb alpert foundation, the ford foundation, the alexandra and steven cohen foundation, and other major stakeholders. In fy15, hsa continued to move forward with its strategic plan to leverage and build its capacity within a responsible fiscal framework that enables the school to deeply impact its students and families through educational programming and cultural partnerships. The following fy15 achievements and milestones are a culmination of these efforts. Fy15 achievementsduring fy15, the harlem school of the arts (hsa) continued to offer its students a diverse array of quality artistic programming in four distinct art disciplines: music, dance, theatre, and the visual arts. In addition to world-class training with top-notch faculty, students participate in music concerts, dance recitals, theatrical productions, and visual arts exhibitions, complemented by public performing engagements students and faculty throughout the greater nyc-metro community. Hsa served nearly 2,000 students ages 2 to 18 by providing quality arts-education programs onsite in our 37,000 square-foot facility located in historic hamilton heights neighborhood in harlem and offsite in new york city schools and community centers through its children's enrichment program (onsite arts enrichment classes open to children of all ages), educational outreach (arts education partnerships/residencies in schools and community centers), hsa prep (highly-competitive, pre-professional scholarship program for ages 12-17), summer intensives and workshops, and artscape summer camp (summer day camp). Hsas family enrichment series offered low-cost & free public performances, lectures, master classes, and exhibitions, with both established and emerging guest artists and attracted nearly 6,000 additional attendees to engaging arts experiences benefitting the harlem community. Hsa students have been accepted to new york citys finest professional training programs at the school of american ballet, nyu tisch schools clive davis institute, the ailey school, professional performing arts school, and laguardia high school of the performing arts. Hsa awarded a total of $154,873 in financial aid and $178,327 in merit-based scholarships to more than 157 families in fy15, representing nearly 20% of the families served. Over 50% of families took advantage of the flexibility of tuition payment plans, which means that over half of our students need some kind of financial assistance. Fy15 milestonesduring fy15, hsa:-awarded $333,200 in financial aid merit-based scholarships as part of its commitment to remove access barriers for students-increased enrollment in its onsite programs, including childrens enrichment, hsa prep, and summer camp, serving 1,166 children onsite, up from 1,046 in fy14-raised $1,019,052 at hsas fall 2014 benefit, a 38% increase over fy14, to support scholarships, financial aid, and general operating expenses -increased childrens enrichment program to 873 students, enrolled in 32-week courses from september to june -increased overall registration across disciplines by 8%, with many students taking advantage of two or more programs/courses-added 4 new board members with experience in law, non-profit management, performing arts, and entrepreneurship-grew its partnership with american ballet theatre to enroll high-performing ballet students in the abt bridge program. Harlem school of the arts is one of only 6 affiliate schools in the world to offer abt national ballet curriculum to its dance students. 100% of hsas students passed abt examinations in fy15 -the voice department had its highest number of applicants ever, with 32 applicants to audition for the voice prep program. 
