---
name: "Young Judaea Sprout Lake Camp Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 132830437
homepage: "www.cyjsl.org"
address: |
 575 8th Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide an educational and recreational summer camp program for youths. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Camp young judaea sprout lake is a summer camp with a mission to strenghten the religious, charitable, literary, educational and other eleemosynary purposes within the meaning of section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and, in particular, to own and operate summer camps to further the emotional, physical and spiritual development of the youth of this country, help youth understand issues they face as jewish americans, sponsor clubs for youth interested in the goals of the organization, cultivate in the youth loyalty to country and its institutions, instill in youth an understanding of the ideals of zionism and the state of israel, promote the study by youth of jewish history, religion and literature and to promote an appreciation of jewish cultural values of youth in accordance with jewish tradition. Camp young judaea sprout lake is a pluralistic community aimed at fostering jewish, zionist and personal identity among the chanichim/campers and tzevet/staff alike. The sprout lake team provides a warm and supportive group environment where chanichim feel safe and are encouraged to develop their interpersonal skills and individual strengths. Our unique daily programs use innovative and informal educational techniques to instill a jewish and israeli flavor in all our exciting camp activities. Our dynamic staff is comprised of dedicated young judaea and camp alumni, israeli schlichim and trained professionals. The diverse experiences and common goals of our staff establish a creative, supportive foundation from which a chanich can develop a personal connection to the jewish people and the state of israel. Cyj sprout lake is the summer expression of young judaea global, the zionist youth movement. The senior leadership of young judaea global is deeply committed to jewish and zionist values and traditions. Through a dynamic combination of athletics, arts & crafts, the performing arts, and other activities, campers discover the wonders of israel and jewish heritage, develop an understanding of what it means to be a part of a community, and learn about themselves as individuals. We are dedicated to laying the foundation for strong, vibrant jewish leadership in the future. Camp young judaea sprout lake continues to thrive. During the summer of 2014 a new gymnastics program was added. Camp tours continue to bring in new campers. We are looking forward to many more summers of fun. In 2015, camp young judaea sprout lake started a day camp program in brooklyn, ny and in 2016, we will be building a new pool complex. 
