---
name: "Fiji Theater Company Inc dba Ping Chong and Company"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- gender
- nature
- employment
- social
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 132874863
homepage: "www.pingchong.org"
address: |
 47 Great Jones St, \nNew York, NY 10012
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The fiji theater company's mission is to create and tour innovative multi- disciplinary works of theater and art that explore the intersections of history, race, art, and technology in the modern world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The fiji theater company's mission is to create and tour innovative multi- disciplinary works of theater and art that explore the intersections of history, race, art, and technology in the modern world. In 2014-2015, ping chong + company completed the following activities:collidescope: adventures in pre and post-racial america is a new multidisciplinary work by ping chong and talvin wilks, developed at the university of maryland in college park. Collidescope uses theater, movement, video projections and a collaged soundscape to create a collision course view of the legacy and psyche behind the history of racial violence in america. Beyond sacred: voices of muslim identity - a new work in the undesirable elements series exploring the diverse experiences of young muslim new yorkers. The goal of beyond sacred is to illuminate daily experiences of muslim new yorkers, and work towards greater communication and understanding among muslim and non-muslim communities in nyc. Beyond sacred was commissioned by laguardia performing arts center where it premiered in april 2015. Say my name is a collaboration between pcc and breakout!, a youth-led organization dedicated to fighting criminalization of lgbtq youth of color in new orleans. Say my name features the true stories of five young trans gender women who are members of breakout! in may 2015, say my name had its new orleans premiere for 2 sold out performances at the ashe powerhouse in new orleans. Secret survivors initiative pcc continues its national initiative to use the arts to address sexual violence. Pcc presented screenings and theater workshops of the secret survivors documentary and toolkit in portland, oregon and mexico city, mexico. Partner organizations screened the documentary around the country at various workshops, events, and community programs. Secret histories pcc presented 8 performances of secret histories for nyc public school students at lincoln center education in february 2015. Secret histories is the professional performance affiliated with pccs arts education program. Each performance was followed by a facilitated q+a with the cast. Over 800 students attended. Arts education and training pcc continued its ue arts education program. In fy15, pcc continued its partnership with flushing international high school, returning for a 3rd year of work with 11th grade students, and created a new partnership with the museum magnet school in manhattan, as well as continuing its ongoing partnership with global kids. In july 20145 sara zatz and ping chong served as lead facilitators for the immigrant experience in california through literature and theatre, a national endowment for the humanities summer institute in san jos, california, serving 25 high school teachers. 
