---
name: "THE HOUSE FOUNDATION FOR THE ARTS INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 132869113
homepage: "www.meredithmonk.org"
address: |
 260 West Broadway, \nNew York, NY 10013
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The house was founded by meredith monk to conduct activities which foster the advancement of music, theater, film and dance. Specifically, the house explores ms. Monk's artistic vision to create art that breaks down barriers between the disciplines. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The house was founded by meredith monk to conduct activities which foster the advancement of music, theater, film and dance. Specifically, the house explores ms. Monk's artistic vision to create art that breaks down barriers between the disciplines. In fiscal year 2015 (fy15), meredith monk & vocal ensemble boasted many programmatic accomplishments. The season kicked off in the fall of 2014 with a record release concert of piano songs at le poison rouge. In december of 2015, monk performed the new york city premiere of on behalf of nature at bams harvey theater - a work that beguiles and baffles, existing in a subliminal zone between genius and its opposite (the new york times, david allen, dec 2014). In fy15, monk celebrated her 50th season, most notably by holding the prestigious debs composer's chair at carnegie hall, which hosted four anniversary concerts featuring her work. This residency included a meredith monk commission entitled, backlight for ensemble acjw, meredith monks weave for two voices, chamber orchestra and chorus, meredith monk & friends concert and meredith monk & vocal ensemble: 50th anniversary concert. Meredith monk & vocal ensemble performed on behalf of nature, for a second time that season, in march 2015 at yerba buena center for the arts in san francisco. The season came to a close in may, 2015 with monk receiving a well-deserved honorary degree from mount holyoke college in massachusetts. In addition to the aforementioned 50th performance season, the house foundation produced its bi-annual vocal ensemble weekend workshop, training artists and educators in monk's performance methods and artistic philosophy. Lastly, in the spring of 2015, the house foundation expanded their educational initiatives including an immersive series of music programs targeting young people in lower manhattan. In partnership with the abrons arts center, these engaging educational classes empowered high school students (grades 9-12) to find their own voice and identity through movement, music and performance activities. 
