---
name: "Washington Heights and Inwood Development Corp"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 132950346
homepage: "www.WHIDC.org"
address: |
 57 Wadsworth Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10033
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The organization's mission is to support and foster an environment for economic development and provide entrepreneurial, cultural, recreational, and employment opportunities for those who live or work in the washington heights, inwood and harlem sections of manhattan. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The organization's mission is
  
  the organization's economic developement program includes: business opportunity success system (bo$$): the bo$$ program focuses on the delivery of capital, technical assistance and referral services to businesses with ten employees or less and annual gross income of less than $500,000 ('micro enterprises'). The organization has made over 370 loans totaling over $5. 6 million since the loan program's inception in 1995. Loans range from $100 to $50,000. Two thirds of the loans have gone to small storefront businesses with the balance going to street vendors, and in-home businesses. A third of the loans go to start-up businesses. Of the loans to individuals, 96% have gone to minority and women-owned businesses. These loans have created over 420 full-time jobs and 130 new businesses in our community. Entrepreneurial assistance: the organization assists over 200 clients annually with one-on-one business counseling and technical assistance. Childcare business development: the organization provides new business counselling and mini-grants to assist community members in starting and maintaining childcare businesses. This program has created over 20 businesses, over 30 new jobs and over 150 childcare slots in the community. Legal assistance: the organization, in conjunction with the nyu school of law, has implemented a legal assistance where neighborhood business owners can obtain some basic legal assistance at no cost. 
