---
name: "Vineyard Theatre and Workshop Center Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 132981292
homepage: "www.vineyardtheatre.org"
address: |
 108 East 15th Street, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Vineyard theatres mission is to develop and produce bold new plays and musicals by both emerging and established artists. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Vineyard theatres mission is to develop and produce bold new plays and musicals by both emerging and established artists. We strive to nurture artists and foster new collaborations, and to engage our audiences in dialogue by producing challenging work of the highest quality and by bringing a spirit of adventure and risk to the art of making theatre. In fy15, vineyard theatre continued our program service activities in new york city by premiering ambitious new theatre created by both emerging and established artists - some new to us and some returning to our stage. We choose bold and innovative plays and musicals which balance the personal with the universal; and we seek to engage our audiences with new work that provokes comment, empathy, controversy and dialogue. Each year we stage three mainstage productions and one developmental lab at our 138-seat theatre; while our development programs support artists creating original work, and our arts education programs serve local public high school students. Among the vineyards many notable world premieres are the lyons and pterodactyls by nicky silver; the scottsboro boys by john kander, fred ebb & david thompson (12 tony nominations for the 2010 broadway transfer); avenue q by jeff marx, bobby lopez & jeff whitty (three tony awards for the broadway transfer); wig out! by tarell alvin mccraney; [title of show] by jeff bowen & hunter bell (one tony award nomination for the 2008 broadway transfer); paula vogels how i learned to drive (pulitzer prize); edward albees three tall women (pulitzer); elis comin based on laura nyros music (5 obie awards); julia chos the piano teacher; jenny schwartzs somewhere fun and gods ear; after ashley by gina gionfriddo; the metal children by adam rapp and middletown by will eno. Our work has won two pulitzer prizes, three tony and 21 obie awards. We are honored to have received a lucille lortel award for outstanding body of work, a drama desk award for artistic excellence and the inaugural ross wetzsteon obie award for support of artists and creativity in the theatre. Fy15 marked vineyard theatres 32nd season. We received acclaim for our productions of billy & ray by mike bencivenga, brooklynite by michael mayer and peter lerman, and gloria by branden jacobs-jenkins (two lortel and two outer critics circle nominations). 20,210 people attended vineyard theatres programming in fy15. Each year, the vineyards arts education programs - offered at no cost to students or schools, and designed to inspire learning, self-expression and life skills - serve up to 500 local public high school students (at washington irving, gramercy arts hs, hostos lab hs, brooklyn theatre arts hs and fordham hs for the arts). In fy15, we held three student matinees, serving over 250 students, of our productions of billy & ray and brooklynite through our mainstage access program, which brings students to our theatre for special performances (accompanied by in-class workshops and talkbacks with artists). The vineyards ongoing artistic development programs offer artists at all stages of their careers tailored dramaturgical and practical support in the form of workshops, readings and residencies. In fy15, we did workshops/readings of sheila levine is dead and living in new york by todd graff and michael devon, feeding the dragon by sharon washington, dot by colman domingo, screaming pigeon by jenny schwartz, im looking for helen twelvetrees by david greenspan, kid victory by john kander and greg pierce, big mountain by marin ireland, caught by christopher chen, and a brooklyn boy by steven prescod. The vineyards paula vogel playwriting award is granted annually to a gifted emerging playwright and includes a cash prize and a vineyard residency; our 2016 awardee is boo killebrew (miller, mississippi) and former winners include christopher chen (the hundred flowers project), erika sheffer (russian transport), branden jacobs-jenkins (neighbors), kara lee corthron (julius by design), rajiv joseph (broadways bengal tiger at the baghdad zoo), and tarell alvin mccraney (the brother/sister plays, the vineyard's wig out!). The 2014-15 recipient was clare barron (you got older). 
