---
name: "North Star Fund Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- gender
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 132950801
homepage: "www.northstarfund.org"
address: |
 520 Eighth Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "North star fund is new york's leading community foundation working to create a more just & equitable city. By organizing donors, raising funds, & distributing grants, we support better schools, housing and health care, protect civil liberties & help create living wage jobs. North star fund supports grassroots activism and organizing to achieve social justice and the common good. Our core grantmaking program provides support grants of $5,000, $10,000, $15,000 and $50,000 to social change organizations in new york city. North star fund has two grant cycles per year, one in the spring with a deadline on or about february 15th and one in the fall with a deadline on or about september 15th. Applications are accepted beginning one month before the deadline. Visit our website at www. Northstarfund. Org for the guidelines, application form and instructions. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

North star fund is new york's leading community foundation working to create a more just & equitable city. By organizing donors, raising funds, & distributing grants, we support better schools, housing and health care, protect civil liberties & help create living wage jobs. North star fund supports grassroots activism and organizing to achieve social justice and the common good. Our core grantmaking program provides support grants of $5,000, $10,000, $15,000 and $50,000 to social change organizations in new york city. North star fund has two grant cycles per year, one in the spring with a deadline on or about february 15th and one in the fall with a deadline on or about september 15th. Applications are accepted beginning one month before the deadline. Visit our website at www. Northstarfund. Org for the guidelines, application form and instructions. In 1979, a network of 28 young visionaries established north star fund - a foundation that forged a new approach to giving. Inspired by the era's movements for social justice, they created a collaborative, activities-led philanthropy. For three decades, north star fund has remained an agile, community driven foundation. Since 1979, it has distributed more than $45 million to over 1,850 groups to fund innovative community organizing and grassroots activism. North star fund operates administrative offices in new york, ny. It is supported primarily through contribution and investment income. North star fund is new york city's community foundation working to create a city rooted in the values of equality, economic justice and peace. By connecting with and inspiring donors to give, and by awarding grants for grassroots organizing and activism, we are building a community of progressive leaders in a movement to achieve lasting social change. Donor programs include: a philanthropy committed to change: north star fund connects people with wealth to grassroots activism that challenges the root causes of social problems. Organize donors to reflect our region: innovative programs engage people who give inherited wealth and earned income, professionals of color, and lgbt donors. Donor advised services: north star fund draws on its deep knowledge of community issues and its management expertise to help individuals, families, and foundation partners develop effective grantmaking strategies. Beyond giving: through publications and workshops, it builds knowledge of socially responsible investing and progressive estate planning. During the fiscal year ending june 30, 2012, north star fund became the fiscal sponsor for the communities united for police reform (cpr) campaign. Cpr brings together a diverse array of current and former north star fund grantees in a multi-year campaign to end discriminatory policing practices in new york. It builds on the strength of a diverse coalition of community members, lawyers, researchers and activists to work for community alternatives to top down policing and for restorative criminal justice. As the fiscal sponsor, north star fund provides a way for interested donors to provide tax deductible support to the campaign, charitable compliance, and administrative and financial support. In june 2015, north star fund completed a capital campaign that raised $8. 5 million for operations and growth called activism's future: campaign for philanthropic and grassroots leadership. Designed to connect philanthropic donors to community organizers with increased grantmaking to support grassroots victories, activism's future has allowed north star fund to double its grantmaking, take new leadership on strategic communications and expand its compelling donor networking and learning and sharing opportunities to increase the numbers of progressive givers donating through north star fund. 
