---
name: "Anne Frank Center USA Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 132991719
homepage: "www.annefrank.com"
address: |
 44 Park Place, \nNew York, NY 10007
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Overview of history and programsthe anne frank center usa employs art and literature to bring alive the words and spirit of anne frank, an icon known around the world, and to inspire its audiences to understand and confront issues of discrimination and other forms of intolerance. Anne was a gifted writer who bequeathed an artistically and culturally important work that continually ranks as one of the most read and influential books of the 20 th century. Through her story, the horrors of the genocide that was the holocaust become visceral and real. Through the years her words and her youthful presence of mind have inspired countless individuals, among them, elie wiesel, john f. Kennedy, and nelson mandela. When malala youssafzai gained international recognition in 2012 for her courageous stand against the taliban's ban on educating young girls, she became known as the 'anne frank of pakistan'. Historyotto frank, anne's father, founded the center in 1977 as a way of keeping her memory aliv"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Overview of history and programsthe anne frank center usa employs art and literature to bring alive the words and spirit of anne frank, an icon known around the world, and to inspire its audiences to understand and confront issues of discrimination and other forms of intolerance. Anne was a gifted writer who bequeathed an artistically and culturally important work that continually ranks as one of the most read and influential books of the 20 th century. Through her story, the horrors of the genocide that was the holocaust become visceral and real. Through the years her words and her youthful presence of mind have inspired countless individuals, among them, elie wiesel, john f. Kennedy, and nelson mandela. When malala youssafzai gained international recognition in 2012 for her courageous stand against the taliban's ban on educating young girls, she became known as the 'anne frank of pakistan'. Historyotto frank, anne's father, founded the center in 1977 as a way of keeping her memory aliv
  
  the art of self discovery at p. S. 43x began as a collaboration with the anne frank center usa and dr. Janet pickard kremenitzer, professor in residence at lehman college, cuny, and has now completed its fifth year. Designed to promote emotional, academic, and artistic growth, the project includes a 10-week artist-in -residence program for the 3rd - 5th grade classes, with the goal of addressing literacy, tolerance, anti-bullying, cultural awareness, empathy, and resiliency. Students spend the first half of the term creating artwork through which they study anne frank and her experiences in hiding. Spring 2014 projects included watercolor explorations of the places in and around the secret annex: the chestnut tree outside the attic window, anne's bedroom, her diary, the secret annex as viewed from outside. During the second part of the term, students make comparisons between anne's life and their own experiences. Students created printmaking projects through which they presented their individual cultural heritage, and they wrote letters to anne, addressing connections between anne's experiences and their own. Because students participate in the program for all three years, projects vary from year to year. Art projects in previous years have included: self-portraits, an exploration of facial expressions and emotions, and graphic novels/storyboarding. Each year of the residency, a weekly lunchtime focus group for all eight classroom teachers and partners provides support, reflection, and brainstorming. The program culminates with an assembly and final exhibition of artwork to showcase the student projects for parents, students, and teachers. For the last two years, the anne frank center usa has presented our signature theater piece, conversations with anne, at the final assembly. In this solo performance piece, a professional actress portrays anne, with text taken directly from her diary; she then remains in character to answer students' questions about her time in hiding. The art of self discovery program also brings the 5th grade classes to visit the anne frank center usa, where they meet with a holocaust survivor, and to lehman college, where they tour the campus. Art and propaganda at is 276 was piloted as a three week residency with the eighth grade students at is 276 - the battery park city school. Implemented as a collaboration with the social studies and art teachers at the school, the program asks students to examine images of propaganda from the nazi era through today. They then utilize this knowledge to create their own propaganda pieces that negate stereotypes and promote diversity, individualism, cultural awareness, and acceptance. At is 276, the students created posters and 3-dimensional displays incorporating the medium of collage. A performance of letters from anne and martin developed from excerpts from anne's diary and martin luther king's letter from birmingham jail was presented to all students at is 276 earlier in the year. The 8th grade students also visited the anne frank center usa, where they participated in a new education program specifically tailored to the theme of propaganda in the con text of anne frank's life. Teacher testimonyartist-in-residence programsthe program was great. The instructor was well prepared and provided many engaging activities for the students. [the residency] allowed the students to self reflect and gave them an opportunity to share their life story. ' - 4th grade teacher, ps 43x the lessons on anne frank and the holocaust helped my students understand the problems of today, especially the activities because they were able to express their feelings. By discussing their feelings, they were able to learn more about each other. They learned different ways of expressing their emotions. ' - 4th grade teacher, ps 43xthe program enhances the social studies curriculum and ela curriculum. The artist also provides multi-curriculum experiences for the children through their art work. [she] is very knowledgeable in the subject, and is caring and respectful of the students. She is able to grasp the attention of the students and to get the students to participate. ' - 4th grade teacher, ps 43x'anne frank's lessons taught the importance of documenting our experiences. My students were able to identify and illustrate various emotions. Special needs students were able to execute beautiful art work. ' - 3rd grade teacher, ps 43xthe students loved working with anne frank. They enjoyed reading about her, researching, journaling and participating in class discussion. It helped me deal with behavior problems in a positive way and get the students to open up. The students were able to express themselves through a means not usually available to them. ' - 5th grade teacher, ps 43xmy students were able and still make connections with anne's life and the holocaust, especially with anne writing about her feelings in a diary. Discussions with the emotional intelligence have truly set a positive tone within the classroom with students respecting each other and listening to each other. The artist brought an excellent and different feel to how we know ourselves and others through art, and looking within ourselves. ' - 5th grade teacher, ps 43x'i enjoyed working cross curricular with social studies. I was very happy with the way [the artist] worked with the students, pushing them to do their best in their own unique style and skill level. Students felt proud of their work. Many of them came in to work with me on their projects outside of the designated time. A few of them also expressed their satisfaction with their work and looked forward to taking it home. ' - 8th grade art teacher, is 276
