---
name: "Center for Independence of the Disabled in New York Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 132984549
homepage: "www.cidny.org"
address: |
 841 Broadway Suite 301, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The center for independence of the disabled, newyorks goal is to ensure full integration, independence and equal opportunity for all people with disabilities by removing barriers to the social, economic, cultural and civic life of the community. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The center for independence of the disabled, newyorks goal is to ensure full integration, independence and equal opportunity for all people with disabilities by removing barriers to the social, economic, cultural and civic life of the community. In this 25th anniversary year of americans with disabilities act, we have much to celebrate. In new york city, cidny has been in the forefront of change that improves life for people with disabilities. Yet, there is much more to do. What have we won? emergency planners must include people with disabilities pursuant to our landmark civil rights court case. On election day, polling sites must be accessible for people who use wheelchairs and walk with canes. Taxis must become accessible and buses have already made the change. People using wheelchairs can navigate checkout lines at groceries; people who are blind or have low-vision can get large print prescriptions at pharmacies; a government jobs program must accommodate people with mental disabilities. People with disabilities are no longer crushed by surprise medical bills from doctors outside their health plan networks. Cidny made these changes happen. In the last year, we helped more than 15,000 individuals in all neighborhoods of new york city get to know more about their rights. We helped many solve tough problems and better themselves with our expert counseling. We helped people leave institutions with the right supports in place and saved taxpayers more than $4 million that would have been wasted. Our stories of changing lives were carried nationally on radio, television, and in the papers. But even as we celebrate, theres so much more to do. Our report, the ada at 25 documents the persistent inequality of opportunity people with disabilities experience each day. They are more likely to lose out on education, employment, income, food access and housing affordability. They are less likely to be able to use the subways to get to work or be able to cross the street safely. They are more likely to live in poverty. But, all this can change. In the new year, we will work on making the streets safer, helping government remove discriminatory barriers, preparing youth for higher education and employment and so much more. We will work with individuals and families to create roadmaps for changing lives. We will educate the public. 
