---
name: "Committee to Protect Journalists Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- religious
- politics
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133081500
homepage: "www.cpj.org"
address: |
 330 Seventh Avenue 11th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Cpj promotes press freedom worldwide and defends the right of journalists to report the news without fear of reprisal. See schedule o. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Cpj promotes press freedom worldwide and defends the right of journalists to report the news without fear of reprisal. Cpj ensures the free flow of news and commentary by taking action wherever journalists are censored, attacked, imprisoned, kidnapped, or killed. The organization responds to hundreds of cases each year involving journalists who are targeted for their reporting. Since its establishment in 1981, cpj has grown to become a leading voice in the global movement for free expression. The committee to protect journalists promotes press freedom worldwide and defends the right of journalists to report the news without fear of reprisal. The organization is distinguished by the high quality of its reporting, a reputation for political independence, decades of experience, and an influential board of directors. Its professional staff of journalists and regional experts report on press freedom violations, advocate for reforms, and provide emergency aid to journalists at risk. Cpj pursues direct engagement with government officialsincluding meetings with heads of stateto secure results. The organizations reporting is routinely used as the basis for protests and appeals by a range of influential actors, such as other international human rights groups, political leaders, and diplomats. Cpjs reporting is amplified by major media coverage and via social media. All of the organizations published work is available online at cpj. Org. Cpj operates five regional programs covering africa, the americas, asia, europe & central asia, and the middle east. The organization does thematic work around internet advocacy, journalist security, and journalist assistance. Cpj runs longer-term advocacy projects, including a campaign against impunity for journalist murders and a campaign to free imprisoned journalists. The organization has expanded its global reach to respond to the greater demand for its services. Cpjs international program network includes team members in mexico city, bogot, so paulo, moscow, istanbul, beirut, nairobi, abuja, and bangkok. A representative in brussels leads advocacy with european institutions. This global presence enables cpj to respond quickly and effectively to press freedom emergencies. Cpj works with local, regional, and international media and human rights groups to promote freedom of expression. Cpj is confronting the most dangerous period for the international media in its history, with record numbers of journalists imprisoned, kidnapped, and killed. Journalists are facing pressures from all sides, including from governments, militants, and criminals. The organization is also responding to digital censorship and surveillance on an unprecedented scale. In todays volatile media landscape, the demand for cpjs work is growing exponentially. The organization serves a broader constituency of journalistsincluding large numbers of freelancers, bloggers, and citizen journalists. This new generation of independent journalists typically works with little to no institutional support. They rely on cpj for solid reporting on press freedom conditions, high-level advocacy to end abuses, and direct aid in emergency situations. Through its work in 2014, cpjhelped win the early release of 43 imprisoned journalistsprovided emergency aid to 234 journalists at risk advocated to end impunity for journalist murders which led to significant action by the united nations and a flurry of prosecutions in emblematic cases secured pledges of reform in meetings with heads of state in pakistan, turkey, and brazil, and with senior officials in iraqi kurdistan and hungaryin 2014, cpj carried out missions and special projects focused on countries including mexico, brazil, honduras, turkey, hungary, syria, egypt, ethiopia, rwanda, pakistan, and vietnam. The organization intensified advocacy efforts in the united states, where the administrations war on leaks combined with revelations of widespread government surveillance threaten press freedom worldwide. Worldwide, cpj documented the cases of 61 journalists killed in 2014. Cpj maintains a database with detailed records on journalist deaths dating back to 1992. The organization applies strict journalistic standards when investigating each case to determine whether a death was work-related. Cpjs data is widely used by journalists, activists, and policymakers. Cpj continued intensive reporting and advocacy to expose the dangers in syria, the most treacherous conflict for the media. Since the fighting began in 2011, cpj has documented the cases of 80 journalists killed for their work. The threats have drawn wider attention since militants of the self-styled islamic state began publicizing their atrocitiesincluding the videotaped beheadings of freelance journalists james foley and steven sotloff in 2014. Cpj established the syria response group with a dozen other organizations to coordinate emergency aid, advocate on behalf of exiled journalists with the united nations refugee agency and host governments, and provide resources for journalists reporting in syria. The organization supported a residency program in paris for syrian journalists forced into exile. Cpj worked with journalists and news organizations to strengthen journalist security, including through wide distribution of its journalist security guide. The guide is intended to help journalists navigate the growing dangers of reporting. It includes chapters on covering conflict, crime, civil disturbances, and natural disasters. The section on risk assessment features the organizations pioneering research on sexual violence against journalists. The guide has been used in a variety of training workshops and is available in arabic, chinese, english, french, portuguese, russian, somali, and spanish. Cpj has built up its internet advocacy program to confront emerging threats to press freedom. With the rise of social media and the growing convergence of traditional media online, the internet is the primary conduit for news across much of the globe. Meanwhile, governments, militants, and criminal groups are increasingly adept at using digital technologies for surveillance, censorship, and attack. Cpj has reported extensively on the impact of surveillance on press freedom and works to raise awareness among journalists about the critical importance of digital security. In 2014, the organization established an internet advisory group of leaders from across the tech and media sectors to help guide its work in this rapidly evolving area. Cpj intensified advocacy efforts in the united states, whose technology policies and surveillance practices have global implications for press freedom. Cpj pursued recommendations issued alongside its special report on press freedom challenges in the u. S. , including a call on the administration to limit surveillance of journalists communications. In september, cpj launched a campaign to uphold the #righttoreport in the digital age. The campaign was supported by prominent journalists, media executives, and 70 supporting partnersincluding the associated press, al-jazeera, bloomberg news, the electronic frontier foundation, the national press club, and vice. The u. S. State department cited the campaign as an example of the internets power to make governments more responsive to their citizens. Cpj had a series of meeting with senior u. S. Officials to raise its concerns. Cpj contributed its expertise to brazils landmark law on internet rights, the marco civil da internet, which was signed by president dilma roussef in april 2014. While cpj registered concerns over some provisions, the legislation overall is highly protective of free expression and user privacy. The open-source process for drafting the law sets an important example for technologically-facilitated, participatory democracy. Cpjs detailed analysis of the legislation was published as part of a special report halftime for the brazilian press, published in may. On may 6, a cpj delegation met with president roussef to present recommendations for addressing the range of threats facing journalists in brazil, including mounting violence. In march, a cpj delegation met with pakistani prime minister nawaz sharif and members of his cabinet to push for government action to improve journalist security and end impunity for attacks on the press. The government made a series of commitments, including to establish a joint commission with journalists to tackle the crisis. Also in march, cpj welcomed the conviction of six men for the murder of wali khan babarthe first-ever prosecution for the killing of a pakistani journalist. Throughout the year, cpj worked with local journalists and a coalition of international groups to maintain pressure on the government to act. Cpjs campaign to free the press works to secure the release of imprisoned journalists through a combination of sustained reporting, strategic advocacy, and targeted assistance. This work is urgently needed as the number of imprisoned journalists has grown in recent years. There were 221 journalists behind bars at the time of our 2014 prison census, an increase of 10 from 2013 and the second worst year on record. The data highlights a resurgence of authoritarian governments in countries such as china, ethiopia, burma, and egypt. That grim tally would have been even higher without international advocacy. In 2014, cpjs efforts contributed to the early release of 43 imprisoned journalists worldwide. Cpj ran a high-profil
