---
name: "Single Parent Resource Center Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133030376
homepage: "www.singleparentusa.org"
address: |
 228 East 45th Street 5th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10017
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The single parent resource center, inc. Provides programs and services to single parents and their families. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The single parent resource center, inc. Provides programs and services to single parents and their families. To further this, the single parent resource center, inc. : 1) develops responsive programs for single parents, and their families to fill unmet needs. 2) advocates for improvements in social practices, policies and regulations which affect single parent families. 3) promotes a positive image of single parents and their families within the new york city community. Wherever possible, these efforts will be directed to those single parents most in need. Programs for parentssingle fathers program:the single fathers program is a family support group for custodial fathers, non-custodial fathers and grandfathers who have children under the age of 18 years. Weekly group sessions focus on family management issues and the improvement of relationships with children, grandchildren, co-parents and other family members. Mothers support group:the group strives to increase interaction between parents and their children; reduce family conflict; and improve healthy behavior through effective family management. It also provides the mothers with a supportive network. Strengthening families:the strengthening families program seeks to reduce the incidence of child abuse and neglect by providing parents with the skills that they need to parent effectively, even while under stress. Workshops include topics such as identifying developmentally appropriate behavior, setting realistic goals and objectives, rewarding positive behavior and ignoring negative behavior, fostering healthy communication, and setting limits. Problem gambling prevention:the single parent resource center is proud to announce that it has been selected by the new york council on problem gambling to partner on problem gambling prevention programs for single parents and their families. Sprc offers parenting classes and educational programs with the goal of decreasing problem gambling among school aged youth by helping parents to recognize the signs of problem gambling and learn where to go for help. Single parents in recovery: single parents in recovery is a relapse prevention and parenting program for custodial and non-custodial parents who are attempting to maintain sobriety and to raise children alone. There is a strong emphasis on the development of effective communication skills, and on establishing healthy relationships with children, co-parent(s) and extended family members. Programs for children & youthkids club:kids club is a substance abuse prevention program for children (ages 6-12) who are living in tier ii (transitional housing) shelters in nyc, or who are registered in community based after school programs. This program helps children to identify feelings while in transition, learn healthy coping skills and develop friendships. Youth leadership program:ylp is a substance abuse prevention program for teens (ages 12-17) from single parent families that have a history of homelessness, parental incarceration and/or parental addiction. Services are designed to help teens develop the skills and motivation that will enable them to cope with lifes challenges as they begin to work towards a successful future. Parentline:parentline is a telephone resource service for single parents and providers who are seeking information about parenting and referrals to community resources. 
