---
name: "The Museum for African Art dba The Africa Center"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 133137461
homepage: "www.theafricacenter.org"
address: |
 1280 Fifth Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10029
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The africa center, a nonprofit, nonpartisan, multidisciplinary institution, provides a gateway for engagement with contemporary africa. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The africa center, a nonprofit, nonpartisan, multidisciplinary institution, provides a gateway for engagement with contemporary africa. The centers work is premised on the idea that this emerging market of one billion people, characterized by extraordinary diversity and complexity, is inescapably relevant to building a prosperous, secure, and desirable future. In september 2014, the africa center presented a number of free public and private events, showcasing the range of the africa center's future programmatic offerings. Highlighted events and experiences included art installations (9/19-9/22), discussions, drop-in educational and art-making activities (9/20), performances for all ages (9/19-9/22), african-inspired culinary experiences (9/19-9/22), a malian music concert (9/20), and a three-part panel discussion in partnership with the united nations and the mo ibrahim foundation (9/22). (1) art installations: (a) 'lagos state of mind ii' was an immersive sound installation by nigerian artist, emeka ogboh. Visitors experienced the sights and sounds of lagos using a 'danfo bus', representative of the popular local transportation; and (b) 'citoyen du monde' was an incredibly popular art installation by beninese artist, meschac gaba. Visitors peering high above their heads in the center's main lobby area experienced this artist's vision of a 'global flag'. Artist emeka ogboh and curators presented information and discussed works on view during dedicated art events and public hours. (2) education and program activities:(a) african-designed rainsticks;(b) face painting; (c) african animal puppets;(c) nigerian ibeji fans;(d) egyptian beadwork necklaces;(e) ashanti royal headbands; and (e) postcards from lagos! (in conjunction with the 'lagos state of mind ii' exhibit). (3) performances:(a) baba ibeji & ensemble featured unique talking drum (dundun) traditions of nigeria;(b) mamadou dahoue and the ancestral messengers dance company presented masquerading and stilt-walking traditions of ivory coast;(c) aiko dance company presented an array of african dance and percussion;(d) something positive, inc. Presented interactive african storytelling with music, drumming, and songs;(e) janka nabay & the bubu gang of sierra leone, and chomp & quench (the fela! band); and (f) dance theatre of harlem presented a new ballet piece, entitled the african waltz in a first-time collaboration with the center. (4) culinary experiences: african-inspired dishes were prepared and cooked on location on a grill on the center's plaza, provided by chef alexander smalls. (5) malian music concert: the evening concert at the africa center was a special edition of the festival in exile in conjunction with the timbuktu renaissance, presenting amanar, amkoullel, rocky dawuni, salif keita; samba toure and vieux farka toure; with remarks by h. E. N'diaye ramatoulaye diallo, minister of culture, mali, and ambassador samantha power, united states permanent representative to the un. (6) africa rising forum: the africa center brought together political, civil society and business leaders, policy makers and opinion shapers for a day-long series of panels on 09/22 during the united nations general assembly. The three panels were (a) 'ensuring shared prosperity,' featuring esteemed panelists including h. E. Dr. Anthony mothae maruping, commissioner for economic affairs, african union commission;(b) 'building peaceful and accountable societies,' featuring panelists including maged abdelaziz, under-secretary-general and special advisor on africa, un; & (c) 'making africas transformation impactful' featuring panelists including h. E. Hon. Uhuru kenyatta, president of the republic of kenya and h. E. Sam kutesa, president of the 69th un general assembly, un & minister of foreign affairs, uganda, amongst others. 
