---
name: "One to World Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- youth
- health
- social
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 133179151
homepage: "wwww.one-to-world.org"
address: |
 285 West Broadway 450, \nNew York, NY 10013
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "One to world creates global citizens and inspires a peaceful world through one-of-a-kind programs in classrooms and communities. It is the one organization that connects the world's students to thousands of new yorkers. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

One to world creates global citizens and inspires a peaceful world through one-of-a-kind programs in classrooms and communities. It is the one organization that connects the world's students to thousands of new yorkers. One to world programs bring together americans, fulbright grantees and other international students to experience each other's lives in profound ways, creating a constant stream of face-to-face personal interactions among people from around the world. One to world is designated by the u. S. Department of state as the official coordinator of enrichment programs for visiting fulbright grantees in the greater new york area. Through one to world, international students and fulbright grantees interact with people in the new york area, explore american institutions 'behind the scenes,' visit local neighborhoods, and learn about facets of u. S. Culture and society they might not otherwise encounter. Among our most popular programs for visiting international students are our 'community visits' that enable international students to experience american home hospitality in diverse urban, suburban, and rural settings through weekend and holiday visits arranged by one to world. One to world also organizes delegations of international students to attend 'foreign affairs conferences' at u. S. Military academies including west point and the naval academy where they contribute unique perspectives on world issues and foreign policy. In the 2014-2015 academic year, 2,955 students from a multitude of countries participated in 125 enrichment programs organized by one to world. 
