---
name: "Aging in New York Fund Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133153550
homepage: "N/A"
address: |
 2 Lafayette Street 11th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10007
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The aging in new york fund is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for older new yorkers and their families. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The aging in new york fund is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for older new yorkers and their families. The funds vital efforts to create an age friendly new york focus on maintaining nycs status as the best place to grow old, identifying cutting edge innovative pilot programming to fill critical gaps in the aging services continuum, and providing fiscal and administrative support to other nyc non-profits in their efforts to offer essential services to seniors. As a result of the funds affiliation with the city, it is uniquely positioned to understand the pressing needs and/or gaps in services for older adults. Building upon its history and proven track record in devising creative approaches to gaps in services, the fund initiated a series of educational forums in 2014 to encourage critical dialogue. Following mays inaugural forum on healthcare reform and aging services connections, in october 2014, the fund also co-hosted a food insecurity track at the state society on aging of new york conference; 70+ thought leaders (representing the fields of academia, advocacy, home delivered meals, case management, senior centers, non-dfta food providers, umbrella organizations and government) helped formulate recommendations for future consideration by the city and potential submission for the 2015 white house conference on aging. Following this, the fund developed a smaller community based panel on food insecurity and benefit enrollment and held its first one in harlem. Additionally, the fund is participating in the implementation of a pilot-project in dfta-funded senior centers based on a model developed through the community experience partnership (cep), which was designed to engage older adults as leaders of change in their communities. The current project, older adults strengthening communities through food, is conducted in partnership with united neighborhood houses, through grants from the new york community trust and the florence v. Burden foundation, and aims to help redefine the relationship between older adults and their local senior centers and the broader community, moving to a more asset-based approach for working with older adults to enrich current and future programming. The fund is proud to serve as the lead partner for the nyc coalition on aging & vision, which consists of the leading vision rehabilitation agencies in the city. Since its establishment in 2007, the coalition has transformed from a small demonstration program into a strong and active partnership with a clear strategic vision. In fy15 community outreach with close to 2,000 older new yorkers led to over 775 referrals for vision rehabilitation services. Also, over 3,600 limited-english proficiency seniors received interpreter and/or patient navigator services in 7 languages in coalition agency offices, during home visits, and when necessary, while conducting outreach within the community. As the charitable arm of dfta, the fund assists the agency with creative programming, grant development and fiscal oversight of grant funded projects. These include addressing late-life depression and anxiety under a federal grant with the joan & sanford i. Weill medical college of cornell university. Dftas elderly crime division has integrated screenings for depression and anxiety into their intake for victims. Those whom staff think would benefit are referred to a mental health clinician placed within the unit to provide evidence based mental health prevention called protect, which is based on elements of problem solving therapy (pst) and anxiety reduction techniques. Over the last few years, nearly 325 clients have been screened, with 120 being found positive and approximately 40 receiving service. For another depression research grant, two month follow-up interviews were conducted with 400 participants of depression screening workshops. Through the award of $1. 7 million is by new york state governor andrew cuomos office through the federal superstorm sandy social service block grant, the fund is working with dfta and the department of psychiatry at weill cornell medical college, on the sandy mobilization assessment, referral and treatment for mental health project (smart-mh) to identify the mental health and social support needs of older adults in areas affected by hurricane sandy. The approach is modeled after the mental health initiatives employed after hurricane katrina to build community resilience, and will involve mental health assessments, referral and treatment services. To date, 15 dfta-funded senior centers have agreed to provide services on-site and assessment have begun. 
