---
name: "The Pearl Theatre Company Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- nature
- employment
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 133118488
homepage: "www.pearltheatre.org"
address: |
 555 West 42nd Street, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Resident classical theatre producing a full range repertory strongly rooted in the classics. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The pearl theatre produces a full-range classical repertory with a resident company of actors. Mainstage season: the pearl produced four mainstage productions at 555 west 42nd street, a 160 seat venue:uncle vanya by anton chekhovseptember 9 - october 12, 2014directed by hal brooksmajor barbara by george bernard shawnovember 4 - december 14, 2014co-produced with gingold theatrical group and directed by david staller the winters tale, by william shakespearefebruary 10 - march 15, 2015produced in association with the shakespeare society and directed by michael sexton don juan by moliremay 5-june 7, 2015directed by hal brooksarts in education: in the 2014-2015 season, the pearl's flagship education program, classics in the classroom, provided services to 269 underserved high school students from across the city. Audience engagement: the pearl continued its dedication to expanding audience knowledge of and engagement with the plays we produce. Tuesday talks offered audience 8 post-show discussions (2 per production). The pearl insider, our dramaturgical newsletter, was viewed by approximately 18,000 people in the theatre, and a further 60,000 by email. Curtain up classics, our pre-show lecture series, served over 100 people. Resident acting company: in the 2014-2015 season, our actors rehearsed and performed 16 roles in our mainstage productions. They planned, and implemented the pearls arts-in-education programs, participate in audience engagement, and taught in the pearl conservatory, offering affordable, quality training to young actors. Modern/classics reading series: the reading series offered contemporary adaptations of classic texts. It ran from january 23 to february 2, 2015, and brought 1,000 people to the pearlnearly half of whom were attending the pearl for the first time. Internships and apprentices: interns and apprentices worked with pearl staff in the areas of theatre administration, stage management, costume construction and wardrobe, and production. The pearl welcomed 25 interns and apprentices in 2014-2015. Marketing and outreach: the pearl welcomed over 18,000 audience members to a total of 140 performances, including over 1,800 students. 
