---
name: "Madre Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- farm
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133280194
homepage: "www.madre.org"
address: |
 121 West 27th Street Suite 301, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Madre inc. Is an international women's human rights organization that partners with grassroots women's groups worldwide in communities facing war and disaster to meet urgent needs and advocate for lasting change. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Madre inc. S mission is to advance womens human rights by meeting urgent needs in communities and building lasting solutions to the crises women face. In 2014, madre launched two major initiatives: (1) my body is not your battlefield, to prevent rape as a weapon of war, and (2) women climate defenders, to sustain womens vital interventions against climate change. Each of these initiatives reflects our dual approach of strengthening grassroots womens organizations while advocating for human rights. As a third major project, we also operated a program called helping hands, through which we delivered over $1. 5 million worth of humanitarian aid to the communities of our grassroots sister organizations. (1) initiative: my body is not your battlefieldthrough this initiative, madre works to confront the use of rape as a weapon of war by setting up community-based services for care, counseling and shelter and by demanding policy change to protect women and prevent rape. In 2014, our accomplishments included responding to the isis invasion of iraq and to their rampant use of wartime rape. We operated the only womens shelter in isis-controlled territory, offering vital refuge and humanitarian aid. We also launched the womens peace farm, where displaced iraqi women farmers and their children receive emergency shelter, grow food and earn income. We also convened rights activists from colombia and guatemala in a series of landmark gatherings, where we provided human rights training to women who came together to exchange strategies to heal, prevent rape as a weapon of war, and build lasting peace. At a major global summit on sexual violence in conflict, held in june 2014, we uplifted the demands of our grassroots partners from syria, iraq, colombia and beyond, and we held world leaders accountable to their commitments to end wartime rape. (2) initiative: women climate defendersthrough this initiative, we amplify the voices of women on the frontlines of our global climate crisis. Madres grassroots partners confront poverty and discrimination that leave them especially vulnerable to climate threats like droughts and food shortages. With madre support, these women have innovated concrete strategies to protect local communities, and together, we advocate for policymakers to replicate and sustain grassroots womens solutions. In nicaragua, we worked with our local partner to train and provide seeds to women for organic farming and to create new opportunities for women to sell their produce locally. In kenya, frequent droughts devastate rural communities, leaving their land parched and threatening lives. In 2014, madre helped women farmers store water to last through droughts, installing new clean water tanks in indigenous communities. We also supported trainings for women to harvest and conserve rainwater. (3) helping handsthrough our humanitarian aid program, madre provides women and families in the communities of our sister organizations with vital supplies like medicines and medical equipment, classroom materials, prenatal vitamins, maternity supplies and more. In 2014, we sent shipments valued at $1. 5 million. We also conducted an in-depth assessment of the maternal health conditions in indigenous communities on the north atlantic coast of nicaragua, in order to more specifically target and deepen the impact of our humanitarian aid. 
