---
name: "Womens Project & Productions Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- gender
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133369451
homepage: "www.womensproject.org"
address: |
 55 West End Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10023
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Women's project theater is the nation's oldest and largest theater company dedicated to developing, producing and promoting the work of female theater artists at every stage in their careers. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Womens project theater is the nations oldest and largest theater company dedicated to developing, producing and promoting the work of female theater artists at every stage in their careers. Wp supports women theater artists and the world-class, groundbreaking work they create, and provides a platform where womens voices can be heard and celebrated on the american stage. At a time when gender parity is still a distant goal, the unique mission of wp is more essential than ever. In service of that important mission, over the past 37 years wp has produced over 600 main stage productions and developmental projects, and published 11 anthologies of plays by women. Wp has been the launching pad for many of our nation's most important female theater artists. Eve ensler, maria irene fornes, katori hall, pam mackinnon, lynn nottage, leigh silverman and anna deveare smith, among many, many others, all found early artistic homes here. No other producing institution in the country can claim this kin
  
  womens project theater (wp) was founded in 1978 by julia miles to address the significant under-representation of women in theatre and the organization has spent the past 37 years serving that incredibly important founding idea. Wp has been the launching pad for many of our nations most significant female theater artists. Throughout its 37-year history, wp has produced over 600 off-broadway and workshop productions, and published eleven anthologies of plays. This legacy has made womens project theater the nations oldest and largest company dedicated to producing and promoting plays written and directed by women. Wp accomplishes its mission to develop, produce and promote plays written and directed by female-identified theater artists through two fundamental programs. The first is wps main stage production series, which annually features off-broadway productions written and directed by extraordinary women theatre artists. The second program is wps well-established lab, a two-year residency program for women playwrights, directors, and producers. The new executive team is also thrilled to announce that as of september 1, wp will occupy its own theatrical home for the first time since the sale of the julia miles theater in 2011, the mcginn/cazale theater on 76th street and broadway. This new theatrical home will allow wp to deepen and broaden its artistic programming, to grow its audience base, and to create an even larger sense of institutional identity. Wp celebrated its 37th season in 2014-2015 with the production of four main stage plays, an increase from our usual three play season. The work in the season received critical acclaim, won numerous awards and accolades and comprised a satisfying mix of fearlessness, theatrical adventure, compassion, wit, and heart. The four plays were:when january feels like summer by cori thomas & directed by daniella topol (a co-production with ensemble studio theatre). Charles isherwood of the new york times called the production: engaging, buoyantly acted, satisfyingly written with heart and humor, with superbly judged direction by daniella topol. The emotional intensity had me holding my breath. A beautiful day in november on the banks of the greatest of the great lakes by kate benson & directed by lee sunday evans (a co-production with new georges). A quirky comedy that cleverly transforms an extended familys thanksgiving dinner into a fiercely fought competitive sport ms. Bensons writing, ms. Evanss direction and the performances are completely in sync like a soccer team playing up to world cup level says the new york times. This production later went on to win two obies for its playwright and director. Bright half life by tanya barfield & directed by leigh silverman (a world premier). Bright half life is profound a well-written, engaging portrayal of smart women finding themselves, and each other says the new yorker. Already we have been informed that bright half life will be produced in no less than 15 subsequent productions across the country in 2016. The undeniable sound of right now by laura eason & directed by kirsten kelly (a co-production with rattlestick playwrights theater). The new york times raved flawless, engaging, superbly acted, sexy & moving and ms. Easons writing for theatre and television has reached a near-fever pitch. Soon after this production, ms. Easons play appeared on the kilroys list of the best plays by women. The lab is wps incubator for new talent, and has fostered some of the american theaters most important female voices since its inception in 1988. Providing both professional development and leadership training, lab participants obtain executive coaching, make professional contacts, and receive training that proves invaluable to their development. The lab has two primary goals: 1) to cultivate the artistic work of women theatre artists for professional production; and 2) to give women artists the tools they need to succeed in a business that can be biased against them. As such, lab artists participate in:full lab meetings for playwrights, directors and producers occur monthly from september through june. These meetings build an invaluable peer network that transcends the two-year residency program. Meetings focus on varying topics: strategic career planning, pitch coaching, resume/website/portfolio design, dialogues with a wide range of industry leaders, etc. Seminars in the 2014-2015 season included: 1) a workshop in television & film with writer diana son (law & order, american crime), director claudia weill (girlfriends, girls) and manager larry shuman, of shumanco. 2) panel discussions with master directors leigh silverman and anne kauffman. 3) seminars with executive coaches kathryn mayer and deb ziegler. Playwrights also meet separately each month to focus on script development, providing peer support and dramaturgical feedback for each others new works in progress. Directors and producers each meet four times over the course of the year to discuss issues specifically related to their roles and to start developing their outlines for their lab final projects. Lab artists and alumnae have free access to wps rehearsal studio for any new play development. During fy15, lab artists and alumnae used the room to rehearse and develop their projects on 106 days for a total of 549 hours. Readings and workshops: during the 2014-2015 season, wp hosted seven new play readings of work created by lab artists and alumnae. As the culminating project of their residency, lab artists work together to create and develop a final collaborative project. In the spring of 2016, wp will present the wp pipeline festival of new work in the mainstage season, featuring five new works by five playwright/director/producer collaborative teams from the 2014-2016 lab. This year, the lab artists created their five creative teams, started development on their final projects and brainstormed various models for the structure of the pipeline festival. 
