---
name: "Partnership for a Drug-Free America"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- youth
- health
- politics
- family
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- military
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133413627
homepage: "www.drugfree.org"
address: |
 352 Park Avenue South, Suite 9th Fl\nNew York, NY 10010
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The partnership for drug-free kids reduces substance use among adolescents by supporting families and engaging with teens. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The partnership for drug-free kids is dedicated to reducing substance abuse among adolescents by supporting families and engaging with teens. We develop public education campaigns that drive awareness of teen substance abuse, and lead teen-targeted efforts that inspire young people to make positive decisions to stay healthy and avoid drugs and alcohol. On our website, drugfree. Org, and through our toll-free helpline (1-855-drugfree), we provide families with direct support and guidance to help them address teen substance abuse. Finally, we build healthy communities, advocating for great access to adolescent treatment and funding for youth prevention programs. As a national nonprofit, we depend on donations from individuals, corporations, foundations and the public sector and are thankful to sag-aftra and the advertising and media industries for their ongoing generosity. We are proud to receive a four-star rating from charity navigator, america's largest and most-utilized independent ev
  
  the medicine abuse project is an action campaign that aims to prevent half a million teens from abusing medicine. The campaign provides comprehensive resources for parents and caregivers, law enforcement officials, health care providers, educators and others so that everyone can take a stand and help end medicine abuse. For more information on the medicine abuse project please see schedule o. 
