---
name: "Home for Contemporary Theatre and Art Ltd dba HERE Art Center"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133449416
homepage: "www.HERE.org"
address: |
 145 Sixth Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10013
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Here builds a community that nurtures career artists as they create innovative hybrid live performance in theatre, dance, music, puppetry, media and visual art. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Here builds a community that nurtures career artists as they create innovative hybrid live performance in theatre, dance, music, puppetry, media and visual art. Our artist residencies support the singular vision of the lead artist through commissions, long-term development, and production support. Heres programs and performances promote relationships among local, national, and international artists. Our space is a destination for audiences who are passionate about ground-breaking contemporary work and the creative process behind it. Here artist resident program (harp): aesthetically, here tailors its residency programs for those artists who are developing unique voices and experimenting with new approaches to expand the parameters of bold performance work. Moreover, we develop our producing season through our long-term relationships with the artists in the here artist residency program (harp) or the dream music puppetry program. Through these two programs, here commissions and develops new hybrid performance and puppet works over a one-year to three-year period. Now going into its 13th year, harp is still here's signature program, driving our producing season and infusing the entire organization with vital creative energy and a greater sense of community, while providing artists with the necessary skills to professionally pursue their artistic careers for the long-term. Through harp, here is investing in the future of performance by providing artists with the skills that they need to succeed in the field, while continually striving for artistic innovation and excellence. Prototype: prototype opera/theatre/now is an annual festival of visionary opera-theatre and music-theatre works by pioneering contemporary artists from new york city and around the world. Prototype is a co-production of here (who also acts as the fiscal agent) and beth morrison projects two leaders in the creation and presentation of contemporary, post-classical, multi-disciplinary opera-theatre and music-theatre work. The festival is the only of its kind in new york city - presenting both complete performances as well as works-in-progress through partnerships with local performing arts venues. Access here: here's core annual audience consists of approximately 45,000 ethnically diverse, urban 20-30 somethings. We keep our work accessible to this audience by keeping our ticket prices affordable (our highest ticket price is $20). We also give away 5,000 free and discounted tickets annually. We aim to integrate art into daily life and engage our community's needs and interests on as many different levels as possible in order to ensure our regular presence in their lives. For example, key elements of our programming are designed to allow the public to have as many access points to the development of original art as possible through work-in-progress showings, workshop productions, postshow artist talkbacks, informal discussions in our cafe and full productions. To reach them, we use snail mail, email, web, advertising, distribution and audience development consultants. Made here is a documentary series and website focusing on performing artists based in new york city. A collage of intimate interviews, performances and behind-the-scenes footage, made here mirrors the rich diversity of the artists and communities they serve. This project ended in fy14, but will remain online indefinitely. 
