---
name: "Open Channels New York Inc dba Dixon Place"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- gender
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 133486263
homepage: "www.dixonplace.org"
address: |
 161A Chrystie Street, \nNew York, NY 10002
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To foster, promote and advance greater knowledge, understanding and appreciation of the performing and literary arts, including dramatic, dance, video, and other visual presentations. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To foster, promote and advance greater knowledge, understanding and appreciation of the performing and literary arts, including dramatic, dance, video, and other visual presentations. Dixon place presented over 600 performance, music and literary events from january through december 2015, in the lounge and on the main theater stage, serving over 800 lead artists or groups. Additionally, the lounge at dixon place served as a gallery for curated and rotating visual art showings throughout the year. The breakdowns of programs and artists served are as follows:dixon place presented 7 full-length works of dance and theater in our commissioning program, for a total of 44 performances. We paid commissioned artists a fee of $3,000 each, and provided: designer, director and performer fees; funds for production materials; technical staffing and assistance; 40 hours of free rehearsal time in addition to a minimum of 15 hours of technical rehearsal; and marketing as well as publicity support. Our other theater and performance art programs consisted of six ongoing programs: performance works-in-progress (curated works-in-progress); bindlestiff cirkus open stage variety (monthly presentation of all kind of circus art); puppet blok (featuring puppetry, mask, animation and other alternative theatrical forms); artists-in-residence (emerging artists/theater companies given 4-month in dps space to develop and showcase new work plus one full year residency awarded to the recipient of the tom murrin award); little theatre (an award-winning monthly series featuring experimental theater, performance art, music and dance); and carousel (cartoon slide shows and other projected pictures). Stipends awarded ranged from $50-200 depending on the length of presentation, number of audience members and the number of artists presenting each evening. Other performance series are presented free of charge at the dixon places lounge, such as campfire (queer storytime), gershwin live at dixon place, how do you throw a party?, the mosquito, nyc talent showdown, queer art organics, salon lounge at dixon place. A total of approx. 650 artists/groups were presented in approximately 400 theater, performance art, and music events. Dance programming consisted of five ongoing series: crossing boundaries (international dance from brazil and around the world), under exposed (emerging choreographers), moving men (new works that feature male dancers); brink! (presentation of two 30-40 minute dance works); nyc 10 dance initiative (co-presentation with tendu, inc. Of 10 emerging choreographers) and special dance events (more finished works). Each curator received $100 per evening of work and choreographers received $50 to $175 each. We presented the work of over 130 choreographers on 55 nights of these six series. In our literary programs, we presented approximately 60 writers on about 25 nights in four curated literary series: queer text (gay/lesbian authors); experiments & disorders (poetry, fiction, and short plays); guts (encourages risk, courage, nakedness & the exploration of interiors); guerrilla lit reading series (emerging & establish artists); spine out (novelists read personal essays); and divulger reading series (creative nonfiction & fiction stories that divulge personal truths). Curators received $50 and writers $25 to $50 per event. 2015 marked the 24th successful year of hot! festival (the nyc celebration of queer culture), a popular summer festival of lgbtq theatre, performance art, dance, literature, music and multi-media artists. The festival took place 6 nights per week, often with 10 shows per week, for one month. We programmed over 35 artists for the festival, many of them performing at dixon place for the first time. Dixon place continued its cultural education & community outreach program (ceco) for culturally under-served seniors and youth in our area. The free, ongoing workshops took place at dixon place and the sirovich senior center, and served about 450 participants (teaching artists are paid from $120 to $450 per workshop). The lounge at dixon place (a subsidiary entity), continued to provide additional, earned income through concessions sales, for the purpose of supporting dixon places mission to serve performing and literary artists creating new work, and it presented visual art in 6 curated showings (curators were paid $200 to $600). 
