---
name: "Violence Intervention Program Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133540337
homepage: "www.vipmujeres.org"
address: |
 PO Box 1161 Triborough Station, \nNew York, NY 10035
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To lead latina victims of domestic violence to safety, empower them to live free of violence and reach and sustain their full potential by raising community awareness, engaging in activism and providing culturally competent services. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To lead latina victims of domestic violence to safety, empower them to live free of violence and reach and sustain their full potential by raising community awareness, engaging in activism and providing culturally competent services. Residential:morivivi safe dwelling program: in fiscal year 2014-2015, morivivi housed a total of 178 clients (76 women and 102 children) all of whom received emergency aid including food, clothing, basic toiletries, and transportation fare. These clients also received a total of 57 service referrals; 751 individual counseling sessions; 188 advocacy services; and were given information 64 times. Due to a lack of affordable housing and other safety net resources which hampers an individuals ability to secure housing, only 20 women of the 70 who received housing referrals were able to secure transitional or permanent housing within the allotted frame time. This program also received 5 in-kind donations defined as toys, clothing, furniture, and/or equipment. Casa sandra, supportive housing program for social change: in fiscal year 2014-2015, casa sandra maintained a 100% occupancy rate providing a safe abode for a total of 51 clients over this period. The clients who resided in casa sandra during this period received 180 concrete service referrals (public benefits, permanent housing, employment, etc. ) and 60 units of information was disbursed; 360 counseling sessions took place; and 100 advocacy services provided. Emergency aid (food, transportation, and rent assistance) was not granted during this period as there were no requests. Of the 51 clients served, 7 (including children) moved into permanent housing through vips assistance. This program also received 2 in-kind donations defined as toys, clothing, furniture, and/or equipment during the fiscal year. 
