---
name: "EAST-WEST MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- family
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133586432
homepage: "www.ewmi.org"
address: |
 575 Madison Avenue 25th FL, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Working in partnership with grass roots groups,local gov'ts,int'l orgs,ewmi combines legal,civic & economic initiatives to build just, prosperous and democratic societies. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The east-west management institute, inc. (ewmi) promotes and fosters democracy and economic development throughout the world by various means, including, but not limited to, cooperative and other projects and activities with governments and non-governmental organizations ('ngos'); grants; and seminars, conferences, workshops and other educational programs. The judicial independence and legal empowerment project (jilep) in georgia, funded by usaid, is organized around the following four sets of objectives: 1) strengthen judicial independence, accountability, and professionalism; 2) strengthen the institutional capacity of legal professional associations, legal rights ngos, and the state legal aid system; 3) improve legal education; 4) develop commercial law and improve commercial law related practice. In 2014, jilep provided trainings for 343 judges, judge-candidates, and court personnel. Jilep supported implementation of 14 grants and campaigns, by local ngos and the coalition for independent and transparent judiciary to promote greater independence of the judiciary, and greater fairness and transparency of the courts. Jilep also continued monitoring and supporting 7 ngos, through grants which were delivered in 2013 but are ongoing, to help them deliver legal aid to elements of the georgian population most in need. In fy 2014, 23,224 individuals received legal advice and representation from these ngos through jilep funding. In the area of legal training, jilep helped the georgian bar association (gba) train 5,042 members on legal ethics and other disciplines. It also trained 275 professors and 593 law students on a variety of issues relating to teaching techniques, mediation, and commercial law. Jilep is also supporting a twinning project between two sets of american and georgian law schools, and is helping to draft textbooks and other materials on legal education, mediation, and commercial law. 
