---
name: "The Bone Marrow Foundation Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133674198
homepage: "www.bonemarrow.org"
address: |
 515 Madison Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The bone marrow foundation, founded in 1992, is dedicated to improving the quality of life for bone marrow, stem cell and cord blood transplant patients and their families by providing vital financial assistance, educational information, and emotional support programs. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The bone marrow foundation, founded in 1992, is dedicated to improving the quality of life for bone marrow, stem cell and cord blood transplant patients and their families by providing vital financial assistance, comprehensive resources, educational information and emotional support programs. Transplants treat more than 70 life-threatening diseases including cancers and genetic disorders. Guided by a medical advisory board of nationally-recognized transplant specialists and working with transplant centers across the united states, the bone marrow foundation is the only organization of its kind that does not limit assistance to a specific disease, type of transplant or age range. For more than 23 years, the foundation has connected patients and their families with the services they needfrom diagnosis through survivorshipto make effective decisions about treatment and its aftermath. All of the foundations programs and services are offered to patients and their families free of charge. Our programs include:lifeline fund - provides financial support to help cover the costs of transplant-related expenses such as the costs of donor searches, medications, home and child care services, medical equipment, transportation, cord blood banking, housing costs and other expenses associated with the transplant. Health insurance often does not cover these vital support services, and many patients cannot afford them on their own. One-to-one funds - offers patients a personalized fund to reach out to family, friends and social networks for financial support. A one-to-one fund can be created in minutes and be promoted through social media or by more traditional means. All contributions to one-to-one funds are tax-deductible and do not affect a patients medical insurance or benefits. One-to-one funds can remain confidential if a participant chooses. The scholarship fund - helps to make educational aspirations a reality for bone marrow, stem cell or cord blood transplant survivors. The fund is open to any student who has received a transplant and is enrolled in either a full-time or part-time educational program. Clinical care counseling - provides confidential individual and family supportive counseling, financial guidance and resource referrals. Counselors are available in person or by telephone to help patients, family members and caregivers navigate all stages of the transplant journey. Ask the expert - enables individuals to anonymously pose questions concerning transplantation and to have them answered by transplant specialists. Supportline - links transplant patients and their families with volunteers who have gone through the transplant experience. Survivorship support group - provides post-transplant patients with weekly telephone or in-person meetings, to share experiences and draw support from others as they continue to navigate their transplant journey. Medical & educational handbooks - provide comprehensive transplant information and resources to assist patients, family members and caregivers. 
