---
name: "Smile Train Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133661416
homepage: "www.smiletrain.org"
address: |
 41 Madison Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10010
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Smile train inc. Provides free cleft surgery and comprehensive cleft care to children in the developing world and free cleft-related training for local medical professionals. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Smile train, inc. 's primary purpose is to provide poor children born with a cleft the same opportunities in life as a child born without a cleft. Smile train's mission is to: 1. Provide free cleft surgery for children in developing countries. 2. Provide free cleft-related training for doctors and other medical professionals in developing countries. 3. Treat the whole child with comprehensive care including: speech therapy, general dentistry and orthodontics. Smile train is an international children's charity with a sustainable approach to a single, solvable problem: cleft lip and palate. Children in developing countries with untreated clefts live in isolation, but more importantly, have difficulty eating, breathing and speaking. Cleft repair surgery is simple, and the transformation is immediate. Our sustainable model provides training, funding, and resources to empower local doctors in 85+ developing countries to provide 100%-free cleft repair surgery in their own communities. We use
  
  treatment program: free cleft surgeries - while our cost per surgery varies across the 85+ different countries where we have worked, our contribution per surgery can be as low as $250. This amount reflects the contribution per surgery that we provide our partner hospitals. They also cover a significant portion of each surgery as part of our cost-sharing agreement with our medical partners. Free medical equipment support - for many of our partners, access to safe operating rooms is their biggest barrier. Many struggle with old and inadequate equipment such as anesthesia machines and a lack of other essential equipment and supplies. Smile train provides financial support that has been used for everything from improving operating rooms to crucial safety equipment such as pulse oximeters and cleft surgical instruments and supplies including scalpels and sutures. All of these investments work to ensure a significant number of incremental surgeries, but also result in safer and higher quality outcomes for the children we serve. Free comprehensive care - every child with cleft needs more than just surgery. Often they also need orthodontic care and speech therapy. Where these services are available, we do everything we can to make them accessible to our patients. We pay for speech therapy sessions, orthodontic work and much more. Financial aid for poor patients - some of our patients are so malnourished they are not healthy enough to be safely operated on and are provided nutritional support in the weeks before surgery. Some of our patients are so poor they have no money to get to the hospital or to travel home after surgery. We have special programs that provide small stipends for these poorest of the poor to ensure they can access cleft care safely. These expenses exclude $57,976,705 donated time and services from doctors, nurses, anesthesiologists, organizations, companies, other medical professionals and medical facilities and supplies. 
