---
name: "Fund for the Aged Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 133603516
homepage: "www.jewishhome.org"
address: |
 120 West 106th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Fund for the aged, inc. Was established to enable excellence in the provision of care for the elderly. It is the fundraising entity for jewish home lifecare. In addition to attracting funds for a myriad of capital projects, jewish home lifecare relies on the generosity of its supporters for important enrichment programs for elders as well as to support research, employee recognition, mentoring for caregivers and educational programs. Fund for the aged, inc. Also funds the development efforts of jewish home lifecare. Fund for the aged, inc. Is funded primarily by contributions from the general public, foundations, and government grants. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Fund for the aged, inc. Was established to enable excellence in the provision of care for the elderly. It is the fundraising entity for jewish home lifecare. In addition to attracting funds for a myriad of capital projects, jewish home lifecare relies on the generosity of its supporters for important enrichment programs for elders as well as to support research, employee recognition, mentoring for caregivers and educational programs. Fund for the aged, inc. Also funds the development efforts of jewish home lifecare. Fund for the aged, inc. Is funded primarily by contributions from the general public, foundations, and government grants. See schedule ofund for the aged, inc. Creates meaningful philanthropic partnerships with individual donors, foundations, corporations, and agencies. Donations fund a wide array of programs including but not limited to the geriatric career development program, telemedicine, palliative care, research, volunteer support, intergenerational youth programs, computer training for elders, dining assistance, religious life programming as well as community outreach. Additionally, fund for the aged, inc. Oversees jewish home lifecare's capital campaign. In 2014, jewish home lifecare raised more than $7. 8 million for capital projects in new york city and westchester bringing the total raised toward capital campaign initiatives to over $100 million. Capital campaign initiatives include the living center of manhattan, sarah neuman center transformation, assisted living in the bronx, and endowment opportunities. Through the annual campaign, $5. 2 million was raised to fund quality of life programming for elders as well as workforce development programs for staff. The 2014 annual campaign inspired high participation rates among management level staff. Over 200 guests gathered in may 2013 for the first himan brown symposium to participate in a debate encompassing the political, economic and emotional issues of caring for an aging population. 'life, living and aging on our own terms' was supported by the himan brown charitable trust and featured dr. Ezekiel emanuel, bioethicist and leading practitioner in shaping the future of healthcare. The event's success inspired a second symposium that took place in may 12, 2014, on the theme of 'the economics of an aging society' and featured jason furman, chair of the white house council of economic advisors. More than 150 people attended. The jewish home's eight over eighty gala held at the mandarin oriental at the time warner center, was jewish home's first gala fundraiser in more than 12 years. The event sold out with 485 people in attendance. Honoring eight people over the age of 80, the event raised $1,365,036. 
