---
name: "Fresh Youth Initiatives Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133723207
homepage: "www.freshyouth.org"
address: |
 505 West 171st Street, \nNew York, NY 10032
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The mission of fresh youth initiatives (fyi) is to engage youth in positive, community-building activities while guiding and supporting them through childhood and adolescence. Fyi fights poverty in three key ways. We provide a safe haven for childrens healthy development, create a pipeline to college by providing rigorous academic support starting in kindergarten straight through high school, and engage youth in local civic activities to build their sense of confidence and belonging to the community. In 2015, the board of directors expanded fyis mission to serve children from grades 5 12 to additionally include children in grades k - 4. Soon thereafter, we were awarded a three year grant from the nyc department of youth and community development (dycd) in the amount of $924,000 supporting an elementary out-of-school time (ost) program for 120 children at ps 128. We decided immediately to replicate the welcome program (welcome) at ps 128, increasing that population from 25 to 120 partic"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of fresh youth initiatives (fyi) is to engage youth in positive, community-building activities while guiding and supporting them through childhood and adolescence. Fyi fights poverty in three key ways. We provide a safe haven for childrens healthy development, create a pipeline to college by providing rigorous academic support starting in kindergarten straight through high school, and engage youth in local civic activities to build their sense of confidence and belonging to the community. In 2015, the board of directors expanded fyis mission to serve children from grades 5 12 to additionally include children in grades k - 4. Soon thereafter, we were awarded a three year grant from the nyc department of youth and community development (dycd) in the amount of $924,000 supporting an elementary out-of-school time (ost) program for 120 children at ps 128. We decided immediately to replicate the welcome program (welcome) at ps 128, increasing that population from 25 to 120 partic
  
  the mission of fresh youth initiatives (fyi) is to engage youth in positive, community-building activities while guiding and supporting them through childhood and adolescence. Fyi fights poverty in three key ways. We provide a safe haven for childrens healthy development, create a pipeline to college by providing rigorous academic support starting in kindergarten straight through high school, and engage youth in local civic activities to build their sense of confidence and belonging to the community. In 2015, the board of directors expanded fyis mission to serve children from grades 5 12 to additionally include children in grades k - 4. Soon thereafter, we were awarded a three year grant from the nyc department of youth and community development (dycd) in the amount of $924,000 supporting an elementary out-of-school time (ost) program for 120 children at ps 128. We decided immediately to replicate the welcome program (welcome) at ps 128, increasing that population from 25 to 120 participants. Fyi now operates across three sites where 450 children ages 5 18 participate in afterschool programs and summer camps. As one result of fyis newly expanded services, including the welcome program, we are serving increased numbers of immigrant youth from the dominican republic and central america. We continue to help children and teens navigate developmental and school transitions, and are doubling our efforts to assist children who are coping with immigration and learning to speak english. Founded in 1993, the very first fyiers created a youth-run food pantry, organized soup carts for the hungry, and distributed hand-made sleeping bags to homeless personsall fyi traditions that have endured. Recent program growth has sparked new and varied service learning opportunities. Many of our teens today are assisting their younger peers as tutors, homework helpers, and athletic coaches, and our youth-run food pantry increasingly donates groceries to fyis own children and families in need. 
