---
name: "Women's Federation for World Peace International Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133796126
homepage: "www.wfwp.org"
address: |
 4 West 43rd Street, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The aim of wfwpi is to realize a peaceful and harmonious global family. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The women's federation for world peace international (wfwpi) supports a network of national wfwp chapters in over 100 nations that are dedicated to empower women with 'the knowledge, the tools and the support needed to create peace at home, peace in our communities, our nations and throughout the world. ' programs, designed according to local needs and capacities, include; leadership training for women and girls, education for peace and reconciliation, skills evelopment and advocacy at major un offices and various regional and national institutions. Wfwp chapters adhere to the principle that women, working together, taking initiative and empowering one another across traditional lines of age, race, culture and religion to create healthy families, are resolving the complex problems of our world. Ultimately 'solutions' come as true partnerships between men and women are established in all levels of society. The beginning point is within society's most elemental level--the family. 1. Organized a csw 58 parallel event: 'stories of women's leadership: achievement and challenges towards achieving the post 2015 agenda goals' on march 18, 2014, from 2:00 p. M. To 4:00 p. M. , hardin room, united nations church center, 777 first avenue at 44th street, new york. 100 participants. 2. Organized a luncheon meeting to celebrate and commemorate csw on tuesday, march 18, 2014 from 11:30 a. M. To 1:30 p. M. , at the delegates dining room, un hq, new york with 102 guests. Speakers included ambassador libran cabactulan, permanent representative of the philippines to the united nations; mr. Andrei abramov, chief, ngo branch, department of economic and social affairs, united nations; susan o'malley, ph. D, vice chair, executive committee, ngo csw new york. 3. Organized and co-sponsored an event commemorating the 20th anniversary of the international year of the family, conference room 4, united nations hq, on june 17, 2014. 4. Managed a team of five un representatives in ny who participate in four committees related to the committee of ngos (congo), as well as two dpi youth interns. 5. Administration: annual membership drive of national chapters; website development. 
