---
name: "Women's Federation For World Peace Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- arts
ein: 133712630
homepage: "www.wfwp.us"
address: |
 481 8th Avenue No 627, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Women working together to establish a culture of heart in the family, community and world in order to achieve genuine and sustainable peace under god. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Wfwp asserts that the family is the cornerstone for peace in the world, and that mature couples are the foundation for strong and loving families. We encourage every woman to become a 'woman of peace' through cultivating her heart, the mother's heart, to care not just for her own children, but for the children of others, the children of other nations, the children of the world, by developing and expressing the qualities of empathy, forgiveness, and unconditional love. Outreach and education, programs and eventseducation & seminars on healthy family relationships and women's dignity:human trafficking awareness event held in tampa, in feb 2014 another 16 cultural, peace, and human dignity programs were held in: colorado (3), district of columbia (3), minnesota (2), pennsylvania (2), oregon, new york, new jersey, maryland, nevada, northern ca october 4, wfwp of district of columbia, maryland, and virginia, held 'face off, strengthening the power of the mind through self-control, in bowie, md additional marriage, family, and relationship seminars were held in minnesota(2), pennsylvania, northern californiaparent's day events were held in- district of columbia, california, illinois, indiana, minnesota, new york, new jersey, pennsylvania, washington state, texas, and virginia. 2 love iq programs were held in pennsylvania empowering and healing, leadership training and retreats:wfwp ny had a spa sunday program in the heart of new york city on january 26, 2014, 'the motherhood initiative. ' uplifting young mothers in colorado was held in feb 2014on february, a 'happy health' seminar was held in ohio giving all participants physical and spiritual advice for a healthier life lives. President selle, presented 2 radio lectures, via the internet radio show 'now is the time,' in february, and then repeated in march of 2014 october, women in faith meeting sponsored by the ca, san francisco bay area chapter of wfwp and the women's interfaith circle of service (wics), a cooperation circle of the united religions initiative. Love iq webinar programs were offered as training for our chairwomen 'lead with love, not fear' a 5 week webinar, attended by chairwomen nationwide. 4 educational seminars on the 'role of women in saving america' were held in metro dc area 3 'herstory' presentations were organized in nevada, as well as one each in illinois and colorado, these events highlight women's contribution in history and recognize women in the local community for outstanding achievements and contributions to society. Haiti relief service took place in june 2014, building character education, and donation of medical goods. The 22nd wfwp national assembly service project was held on october 23, 2014, at the police precinct 4, on georgia avenue in washington dc, attended by teachers and studentsthe 22nd wfwp national assembly was held on october 25, 2014, at the washington times ballroom, under the theme 'learn to lead - from local to global - leading with heart. More than 200 women attended the event. The global women peace network (gwpn) panel discussion, a bridge of peace ceremony, networking coffee hour & initiative highlights, and entertainment were part of this year's program. Reconciliation and peace buildingthe bridge of peace ceremony is wfwp's signature tool in promoting peace and reconciliation. We held (7) bridge of peace ceremonies nationwide in the following chapters; minnesota, nevada, ohio, northern california, new jersey, pennsylvania, colorado. In september the oregon chapter organized an interfaith peace service, meditation, and dance celebration to commemorate the un international day of peace, in west linn, oregon, in cooperation with the 'portland family peace fellowship', 'the holistic peace institute', 'be the peace' and instructors of 'dances of universal peace'. Wfwp usa in collaboration with the wfwpi un office, attended the csw's 58th sessions, and parallel events, from march 10 - 21, 2014 at the un church center the bridge of peace ceremony at our 22nd annual national assembly focusing on 'forgive love and unite'int'l relief fundraisers in support of our sister organization's rehabilitation efforts to victims of the 2013 tsunami we donated $10,600 to wfwp philippines. 
