---
name: "The New York Gracie Square Hospital Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133746997
homepage: "www.nygsh.org"
address: |
 420 East 76 Street, \nNew York, NY 10021
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide high quality mental health and chemical dependency chemical dependency treatment in a caring and compassionate manner to patients residing in the greater new york city metropolitan area. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To provide high quality mental health and chemical dependency treatment in a caring and compassionate manner to patients residing in the greater new york city metropolitan area. To educate the community that we serve about the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental illness and chemical dependency. To provide culturally sensitive and linguistically appropriate mental health and substance abuse services to the new york city asian population. The new york gracie square hospital inc. Is a 157 bed not for profit psychiatric hospital licensed by the new york state office of mental health. The hospital is accredited by the joint commission on accreditation of healthcare organizations and is a member of the new york presbyterian healthcare system. The hospital was formed in 1958 and has been serving our community since that time. Our mission is to provide high quality mental health and chemical dependency treatment in a caring and compassionate manner to patients residing in the greater new york city metropolitan area, to educate the community that we serve about the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental illness, and chemical dependency and to provide culturally sensitive and linguistically appropriate mental health and substance abuse services to the new york city asian population. The asian program the asian program at gracie square hospital is designed to meet the specific need of the asian psychiatric patient in an inpatient setting. The program provides culturally sensitive and linguistically appropriate services to a diverse asian population, including chinese, korean, and japanese communities. Recognizing that cultural factors influence the way an individual views the cause and treatment of mental illness, the program permits patients and their families to work within their own cultural framework to maximize successful treatment outcomes and prevent relapses. By providing staff who can communicate in a patient's own language, the program truly makes patients and their family active members of the treatment team. The asian program is directed by bilingual/bicultural providers. With the help of a culturally sensitive bilingual support staff who speak different chinese ethnic dialects and other asian languages patients and their families can fully understand treatment options and compliance strategies. When patients are ready for discharge, bilingual social workers familiar with all available mental health resources within the asian communities work with patients and their families to organize realistic, effective and culturally appropriate aftercare plans. The expert medical, psychiatric clinical and nursing staffs of the asian program at gracie square hospital conduct a thorough evaluation of each patient's physical and psychological condition immediately upon admission into the program. Past treatment experiences are investigated and family members are interviewed. A comprehensive individualized, multi-disciplinary treatment plan is formulated, based on the most advanced knowledge and techniques, but sensitive to the patients cultural beliefs and expectations. Interventions utilized may include psychopharmacology, crisis intervention, and stabilization of acute medical conditions. In order to provide for a smooth transition to the next phase of treatment, discharge planning is begun at the time of admission. Through our direct and affiliated involvement with partial hospitalization programs, intensive outpatient clinics, extended care facilities, and individual providers, we are able to effect the most appropriate and timely referrals, as well as provide comprehensive information about services provided; *psychiatric treatment by bilingual psychiatrists including complete diagnostic evaluation; *comprehensive medical and neurological examination; *laboratory, radiographic and other appropriate medical tests including ekg, eeg, and other scans as indicated; *individual treatment plan; *multidisciplinary treatment psychiatric symptoms, including detoxification, from addictive substances; *coordination of concurrent medical and psychiatric treatment; *nutritional evaluation and dietary education; *all special diets; *group and individual activities geared toward medication compliance and relapse prevention; *comprehensive discharge planning, by bilingual staff, including referral to culturally and linguistically appropriate outpatient providers; *24 hour/seven day a week on site coverage by an internist and a psychiatrist. Patients are accepted from a variety of sources, including referrals directly from managed care providers, health maintenance organizations, medical hospitals, the community and private doctors. The geriatric program the geriatric psychiatry program at gracie square hospital is designed to treat individuals age 65 and older who have a primary psychiatric disorder which requires acute inpatient treatment. The expert medical, psychiatric, clinical and nursing staff at gracie square hospital will thoroughly evaluate each patient's physical and psychological condition. Based on our findings we will work to provide our patients with an individualized aftercare plan designed to maintain the improvements achieved here. Among the many areas included in our aftercare plan are psychiatric and non-psychiatric medication management, recommendations for psychotherapeutic, intervention, information about available community resources, and concrete help with securing public benefits and extended care facility placement. Services provided: *complete psychiatric diagnostic evaluation; *comprehensive medical and neurological examination; *laboratory, radiographic and other appropriate medical tests including ekg, eeg; *individualized treatment plan; *multidisciplinary treatment of psychiatric symptoms; *coordination of concurrent medical and psychiatric treatments including medication management regimens; *nutritional evaluation and dietary education; *kosher and all special diets; *group and individual activities which maximize independent functioning and help to regain lost skills; *comprehensive discharge planning, including placement and community resource development; *24 hour. Seven day a week on site coverage by an internist and a psychiatrist. Patients are accepted from a variety of sources, including extended care facilities, medical hospitals, the community and private doctors. Private credentialed psychiatrists may admit and treat their own patients. Patients are accepted from a variety of sources, including extended care facilities, medical hospitals, the community and private doctors. Private credentials psychiatrists may admit and treat their own patients. The dual focus program the dual focus program is an inpatient treatment program for those who have significant emotional or psychiatric problems in addition to being chemically dependent. We provide a single setting comprehensive treatment experience, utilizing a flexible blend of the psychiatric and substance abuse models in a warm aa-oriented therapeutic milieu. Our staff consists of highly trained, dedicated and experienced psychiatrists, nurses, social workers activities therapists and chemical dependency counselors, as well as medical, neurological and psychological consultants. It has long been recognized that certain chemically dependent patients do not respond to standard substance abuse treatment. We now know that many of these so-called treatment-resistant patients are, in fact, suffering from two concurrent illnesses. Often these dually diagnosed patients were treated either for mental health or addictions systems, or were shuttled back and forth between them. Frequently, this fragmented approach resulted in treatment failure. The dual focus program at gracie square hospital provides short term hospitalization to the acutely ill psychiatric patient. Operating under the belief that no patient should spend more time in a hospital than is absolutely necessary, the program is characterized by rapid in-depth evaluations and immediate initiation of treatment. The program swiftly and effectively stabilizes acute symptoms, thereby making it possible for patients to leave the hospital as quickly as possible. Patients can then continue treatment in a less restrictive setting. Our program views hospitalization as a brief component in the continuum of health care services and provides cost effective and creative solutions to treat episodes of severe mental illness. The expert medical, psychiatric clinical and nursing staff at gracie square hospital conducts a thorough evaluation of each patient's physical and psychological condition immediately upon admission to the program. Past treatment experiences are investigated and family members are interviewed. A comprehensive, individualized multidisciplinary treatment plan is formulated, targeting the most acutely debilitating behaviors and symptoms. Utilizing the most advanced knowledge and techniques, the team initiates focused goal oriented interventions which may include psychopharmacology, crisis intervention, and stabilization of acute medical conditions. In order to prepare for a smooth transition to the next phase of treatment, discharge planning is begun at the time of admission. Through our affiliated involvement with partial hospitalization programs,intensive outpatient clinics and individual providers, we are able to effect the most appro
