---
name: "NEW DESTINY HOUSING CORPORATION"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133778489
homepage: "www.newdestinyhousing.org"
address: |
 12 W 37TH ST 7TH FL, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "New destiny housing creates long-term security and stability for low-income families and individuals at risk of domestic violence and homelessness by providing housing and services. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

New destiny creates long-term security and stability for low-income families and individuals at risk of domestic violence and homelessness. It is the only new york city nonprofit focused exclusively on the housing needs of domestic violence survivors. During fy15, new destiny pursued its mission through the following activities:1. The development and management of affordable, service-enriched housing for low-income domestic violence survivors and others at risk of homelessness. New destiny has developed 16 projects serving approximately 490 households. Currently it controls and manages 11 of these projects. 2. The operation of housing link, a citywide program that assists domestic violence survivors to find and retain safe, stable housing. Housinglink provides information and counseling on housing issues through training, a telephone helpline, and a comprehensive website. 3. The provision of direct services, support, and referrals to tenants of new destiny's permanent housing with the goa
  
  housing development & management codes 531110 531390new destiny controls and manages eleven residential projects in four boroughs of new york city. Two of these projects provide temporary shelter to domestic violence survivors at confidential locations-prelude in staten island and lily house in the bronx. The remaining nine projects offer affordable rentals to low-income survivors and other households at risk of homelessness - bridge towers, bridge community, 281 bainbridge street, 919 park place and bainbridge manor in brooklyn; 307 e. 54th street in manhattan; and 2299 andrews avenue, 1070 anderson avenue and 2017 morris avenue in the bronx. 
