---
name: "Elevator Repair Service Theater Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 133787877
homepage: "www.elevator.org"
address: |
 47 Great Jones St, \nNew York, NY 10012
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Elevator repair service theater, inc. 's artistic mission is to create original works, with a consistent ensemble, that explore and challenge the fundamentals of live performance. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Elevator repair service theater, inc. 's artistic mission is to create original works, with a consistent ensemble, that explore and challenge the fundamentals of live performance. In its fiscal year 2015, elevator repair service theater (ers) continued to fulfill its mission of creating original works, with an ongoing ensemble, that explore and challenge the fundamentals of live performance. Highlights included: the new york city, self-produced, remount of the sound and the fury at the public theater; touring performances of arguendo at z space in san francisco, ca, at redcat in los angeles, ca, and schauspielhaus in zurich, switzerland; additional development of fondly, collette richland, a new work, including work-in-progress showings in new york, ny; a collaboration with the office for creative research and moma titled a sort of joy (thousands of exhausted things); continuing as company-in-residence at new york theatre workshop; and, expansion of our educational programing including a two-day master class focusing on ers theater-making process. In may 2015, ers opened a self-produced remount of the sound and the fury (s&f), directed by john collins, for an initial 4-week run at the public theater. We extended the run twice, ending our 10-week run at the public theater on july 12th, due to overwhelming audience demand and critical praise. Originally produced in nyc in 2008 by new york theatre workshop, s&f marked our off-broadway debut, and received lucille lortel nominations for outstanding play and outstanding sound design. S&f is a staging of the first chapter of william faulkner's the sound and the fury, one of the most infamously complex passages in american literature. Like ers internationally renowned production of gatz, the play is not an adaptation; rather, with radical commitment ers stages faulkner's language verbatim. In usual ers style, humor, pathos, and high-energy choreography illuminate this southern gothic tale. Ben brantley of the new york times originally called the production a magical opportunity: the chance to rediscover some of the thrill that came with encountering and gradually embracing one of the great achievements of western literature for the first time. Mr. Brantley called this remount mesmerizing and enlightening. ?in fy15, arguendo completed a one-year tour that included z space in san francisco, ca, at redcat in los angeles, ca, and schauspielhaus in zurich, switzerland. In arguendo, ers tackles barnes v. Glen theatre, a 1991 u. S. Supreme court case. Brought by a group of go-go dancers who claimed a first amendment right to dance totally nude, the case examines an indiana law that banned public nudity. At oral argument, the justices attempt to define dance, ponder nudity in opera houses vs. Strip-clubs, and ask whether naked erotic dancing is artistic expression or immoral conduct. Arguendo is a re-imagining of the verbatim transcript of the case's oral argument contrasted with an interview with an erotic dancer who came to observe. The piece was directed by ers artistic director john collins, created in collaboration with visual artist ben rubin, and performed by regular ensemble members mike iveson, vin knight, susie sokol, and ben williams. Elevator repair service continued development on fondly, collette richland (fcr), written by sibyl kempson in collaboration with ers, through an intensive rehearsal period and the presentation of a work in progress performance in nyc at the lamama rehearsal studios. In this homage to jane bowles, a serene domestic scene unravels as mysterious off-stage forces and the arrival of an unexpected guest give way to a surreal exploration of mental and physical spaces. This production will premiere at new york theatre workshop in september 2015 (fy16). In april 2015 we partnered with the office for creative research and the museum of modern art for a special performance in the moma galleries - a sort of joy (thousands of exhausted things). The ocr is a multidisciplinary research group exploring new modes of engagement with data, through unique practices that borrow from both the arts and sciences. After collaborating in 2011 with the office for creative research on shuffle an algorithmically generated mash-up of fitzgerald, faulkner and hemingway ers returned to work with this innovative group on a new piece based on passages created exclusively from text found in the museum's catalog titles of works, artists names, dimensions and materials and performed in the galleries at moma. Since 2010, ers has taught weekend-long master classes for adult professionals each year at new york theatre workshop. This past year, for the first time, we took complete ownership of a master class in order more fully engage our audiences and to make a stronger connection between our style of work and our audiences. The class was an overwhelming success and we will now incorporate at least one master class into our calendar each year. Self-produced master classes will now be a major audience engagement and outreach activity for elevator repair service, exposing new and long-time patrons alike to our unique approach to creating new work. 
