---
name: "The Foundry Theatre"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- politics
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- technology
- arts
ein: 133761711
homepage: "www.thefoundrytheatre.org"
address: |
 140-142 Second Ave, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The foundry theatre aspires to assemble a community of artists with revolutionary ideas for the theatre and the world in which it is situated. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The foundry theatre aspires to assemble a community of artists with revolutionary ideas for the theatre and the world in which it is situated. During 2014 2015 our artistic accomplishments included creating and premiering living here: a map of songs a new one-man musical with performer/composer gideon irving that toured all over new york city; continuing the development of a new play by emerging playwright casey lewellyn; and beginning the development of a new musical by playwright martyna majok and composer michael mcquilken. We made significant strides in the area of organizational development. We mentored one emerging creative producer through our tom proehl fellowship and another through the producers chair; continued to transform our company toward a shared leadership model; and initiated the work of our artist/organizer council an advisory body that responds to the foundrys programming and future plans. Through our artist-organizer council, free range thanksgiving, our audience ambassadors program and our dialogues series, we continued to foster the voices and perspectives of artists and activists of diverse backgrounds pursuing social change. Inspired by naomi klein's international bestseller, this changes everything, foundry dialogues 2015 featured an international group of celebrated thinkers, activists, journalists, policy-makers and artists who are exploring radical new ways to make our world last longer. Four events looked at the impact of climate change on the body, the community, the country and the planet; and the innovative ways people are building resilience and sustainability amidst this otherwise doomsday situation. We continued to build our trademark audience ambassadors program. The foundry hires audience ambassadors from social justice organizing groups throughout the city to bring groups of their constituents to the theatre. The foundry procures free tickets for the ambassadors groups, and pairs each group with some of the work's generative artists for a discussion afterwards at which we provide a modest meal. This year, ambassadors brought groups to performances all over new york city, and also hosted performances of living here: a map of songs. Now in its fifth year, audience ambassadors has brought upwards of 1500 people to theatres throughout the city many for the first time. 
