---
name: "Apex Art Curatorial Program Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- arts
ein: 133884375
homepage: "www.apexart.org"
address: |
 291 Church St, \nNew York, NY 10013
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Apex art curatorial program is a resolutely noncommercial visual art exhibition space which provides curators and artists with a venue dedicated to ideas that are often too provocative or too small in scope for display elsewhere. Apex art curatorial program is committed to fostering a free dialog of ideas emerging from the arts and ideas of all nations and cultures. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Apex art curatorial program is a resolutely noncommercial visual art exhibition space which provides curators and artists with a venue dedicated to ideas that are often too provocative or too small in scope for display elsewhere. Apex art curatorial program is committed to fostering a free dialog of ideas emerging from the arts and ideas of all nations and cultures. Apex art curatorial program is a new york city non-profit art and education center dedicated to creating cultural and intellectual diversity and stimulating public dialog about contemporary art through our exhibitions, events, fellowship program, and publications. In 2015 apex art curatorial program hosted nine visual art exhibitions: five in the nyc gallery space and four in international locations. Three of the nyc gallery exhibitions were selected through our established unsolicited proposal program and four exhibitions outside the nyc gallery were selected through our franchise program. Apex art curatorial programs open calls exhibitions provide opportunities to curators, artists, and organizers from all backgrounds based on the strength of their presented ideas. Winning exhibitions are selected by a changing international jury of 150 individuals for each open call, which is assembled by apex art curatorial program throughout the year. The 2015 franchise program exhibitions were held in dar es salaam, tanzania; beirut, lebanon; copenhagen, denmark; and istanbul, turkey. Each of the nine exhibitions was accompanied by a full color brochure (featuring an essay written by the curator(s) and images of featured artworks), which is distributed free of charge to 7,000 individuals and institutions in 118 countries around the world. Apex art curatorial programs unique fellowship is a month-long cultural immersion program that invites artists working across creative disciplines to explore new ideas, surroundings, and ways of thinking. Apex art curatorial program creates a schedule of selective events, workshops, lectures, meetings, and classes for each fellow in order to provide participants with new experiences, insights, and source material for their creative endeavors. In 2015 our international fellowship brought seven creative individuals from montevideo, uruguay; bangkok, thailand; dublin, ireland; jerusalem, israel; delhi, india; puebla, mexico; and cape town, south africa. Our new york city fellowship sent four creative individuals to jerusalem, israel; seoul, south korea; athens, greece; and skopje, macedonia. In 2015 apex art curatorial program hosted approximately 40 free public programs including lectures, performances, discussions, and workshops. Four of these events included our double take reading series, which is organized by bookforum editor albert mobilio. This year 24 authors were featured, each presenting original work written specifically for the series. Over 3,000 individuals attended apex art curatorial program exhibitions and events in 2015. Apex art curatorial programs extensively archived website was used by an average of 10,000 visitors each month to read exhibition essays, watch videos of past discussions, and research journal posts by current and past fellows. In 2015 apex art curatorial program continued to work on our forthcoming publication on the topic of artist residency programs. The publication includes new commissioned essays by 7 creative individuals from around the world. This book will join previous apex art curatorial program books in wide circulation and is already being used in classrooms around the world. 
