---
name: "Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Riverdale House Housing Development Fund Co Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- social
- funding
- arts
ein: 133865179
homepage: "www.jewishhome.org"
address: |
 120 West 106th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The purpose of the harry and jeanette weinberg riverdale house (referred to as riverdale house) is to provide safe, affordable, independent living for income-eligible older adults. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The purpose of the harry and jeanette weinberg riverdale house (referred to as riverdale house) is to provide safe, affordable, independent living for income-eligible older adults. See schedule othe weinberg riverdale house is an affiliate of jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx. The weinberg riverdale house provides subsidized housing for independent elders with supportive services. This building represents jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx's first section 202 hud program. The weinberg riverdale house is a housing and urban development (hud) section 202 rent-subsidized apartment building for low-income seniors. 73 tenants lived in riverdale house in 2014. The 63 one-bedroom apartment building offers secure living with access to supportive services provided by ewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx. The location is at 6477 broadway, riverdale, ny, 10471. The building was made possible by a grant from the harry and jeanette weinberg foundation, one of the largest private foundations in the united states. The weinberg foundation provides grants to not-for-profits that offer services to low-income and vulnerable individuals and families. 
