---
name: "Franciscan Community Center"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133806214
homepage: "www.fccnyc.org"
address: |
 214 West 97th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The franciscan community center exists to develop, manage, and support educational, recreational, and outreach programs that create positive change in the lives of those they serve. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The franciscan community center (fcc) was organized to meet the wide ranging needs of the upper west side community in new york city. Various programs, specifically designed with the multi-cultural representation of their members in mind, come together to form a safe, healthy and welcoming environment providing an opportunity for self-development and an improved quality of life. The fcc's programs are opened to all, regardless of religious denomination. It is an independent, not-for-profit corporation, located on the grounds of the holy name parish on the upper west side of manhattan in new york city. Youth services - the fcc after school programs offer academic support and cultural enrichment to low-income and at-risk children and youth. The afterschool program is a critical resource for parents who need a safe, nurturing environment for their children, while they work or attend classes. We provide educational assistance, in the form of small group academic classes, one-to-one tutoring in math, reading, and english language arts and homework supervision. In addition, we promote the development of key life skills, such as public speaking and financial literacy through our enrichment classes. 
