---
name: "SHARED INTEREST INC"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- arts
ein: 133836581
homepage: "www.sharedinterest.org"
address: |
 121 West 27th Street Suite 805, \nNew York, NY 100016207
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To promote the equitable development of post-apartheid south africa and neighboring countries by guaranteeing bank loans to low-income borrowers so that they may support their families, build or expand their dwellings or start businesses which in turn generate employment for others in their communities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The organization seeks to promote social reconstruction in south africa and neighboring countries by facilitating access to credit for low-income borrowers through the provision of loan guarantees to mainstream banks and other financial institutions. As these lenders have historically been reluctant to extend credit to a sector of the population they consider un-bankable, the majority of southern african citizens, absent the guarantees, would continue to be economically marginalized. During the 2015 tax year, the organization had outstanding as many as 18 agreements guaranteeing commercial loans to emerging small businesses and microfinance intermediary organizations in south africa and the neighboring countries of mozambique and swaziland. Fifteen of this number supported enterprises in south africa, our principal focus of activity. The aggregate exposure involved in the guarantees totaled approximately $5,628,000 in the year, yet another year in which local lending institutions continued to exhibit a great reluctance to make credit available to people of color, the vast majority of the region's citizens, while maintaining (with some justification) the profit margins of such lending are too thin relative to the perceived risk. Nonetheless, the credit facilities arranged by shared interest in the us, because they were limited to no more than 75% of the exposure, did unlock total lending of sums in excess of the stated amount by virtue of the risk-sharing agreed in the contracts between local institutions and the organization working through its local partner, the thembani international guarantee fund. Additionally, the guarantee program, implemented by means of the proven trans-border mechanism of standby bank letters of credit, continued to give confidence to institutions in south africa other than traditional banks, such as quasi-governmental funding agencies and union pension funds, to put capital at risk in the sphere of small business finance and lending to economically-disenfranchised individuals. Collateralizing the letters of credit, were the us-based investments of the organization, derived from loans and donations by american individuals and institutions whose willingness to risk capital for a charitable purpose has worked significantly to mitigate the economic marginalization of a class people once dismissed as utterly unbankable. Cumulatively, since the inception of shared interest, more than 2,000,000 low-income persons have benefited from the organization's guarantees. 
