---
name: "Neighborhood Trust Financial Partners Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 133849263
homepage: "www.neighborhoodtrust.org"
address: |
 1112 Saint Nicholas Ave 4th Fl, \nNew York, NY 10032
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Neighborhood trust financial partners empowers low-income individuals to become participants in the u. S. Economic system and achieve their financial goals. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Neighborhood trust financial partners empowers low-income individuals to become productive participants in the u. S. Economic system and achieve their financial goals. It strives to achieve this mission through the creation and support of the neighborhood trust financial credit union and the operation of financial educational programs. Neighborhood trust is new york city's leading provider of financial empowerment products and services, focused on improving the personal balance sheets of low-income new yorkers. Our programs connect clients to affordable, productive banking services and a trusted relationship with a dedicated, expert financial advisor so that they reduce debt, save, improve their credit, and achieve their personal financial goals. In 2015 we served over 6,000 people across new york city and made substantial progress on our fastest-growing program: the employer solution. The employer solution provides workplace-based financial counseling and services to employees, leveraging workplace systems and the existing financial relationship between worker and workplace so that improved money management becomes the default payday experience. In 2015 we served more than 1,000 clients at 10 businesses and are investing heavily in growth. Our goals are to ensure that our product and service delivery models engage workers and achieve financial outcomes, to prove our value proposition to employers, and have an operation that can be responsive to growing demand. 
