---
name: "Clubbed Thumb Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- social
- military
- technology
- arts
ein: 133947679
homepage: "www.clubbedthumb.org"
address: |
 440 Lafayette St 4th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Clubbed thumb, inc. Was founded in 1996 with the goal of engaging audiences in the critical examination of theater though the presentation of original and traditional theater forms and to support original dramatic writing. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Clubbed thumb, inc. Was founded in 1996 with the goal of engaging audiences in the critical examination of theater though the presentation of original and traditional theater forms and to support original dramatic writing. Every year we produce summerworks, a seven-week mini-season of new plays. It is the most dynamic, creative and efficient means we've found of serving the dual goals of our mission: to create new work and to foster an ever-growing artistic community. Summerworks features:-an evening of thematically linked short pieces-readings of work-in-progress from our writers groups-three fully-produced premieres, chosen to form an aesthetically diverse constellation of new plays many now well-established playwrights, including sarah ruhl, gina gionfriddo, jordan harrison, lisa damour and rinne groff made their new york and in some cases professional debut in summerworks. Throughout our history we've also offered stand-alone productions of work by jordan harrison, sheila callaghan, adam bock, rinne groff, erin courtney and others. Throughout the year, we offer an array of programming through the greenhouse, a suite of services and opportunities for playwrights, which features:commissions -the clubbed thumb biennial commission, a $15,000 award, has an open-application process, and its submissions are read blind (resulting in 7 commissioned plays to date). -commissions via other organizations, such as nysca (11 plays to date). The writers incubator-the clubbed thumb writers group (ctwg): every year eight mid-career alumni playwrights develop their work over 12 three-hour sessions; 4 mid-career directors and other artists also attend. -writers retreats: annual ctwg retreat at two river theatre in july. -clubbed thumb early-career writers group: alumni playwrights nominate and mentor eight emerging writers, who develop their work in the same format as the ctwg. Theatre professionals are invited as guest speakers to each session. Development programs-superlab: a five-play development series co-curated with playwrights horizons. -staging & design workshops: pre-rehearsal work to establish a physical vocabulary for a summerworks production. -new play boot camp: script revision workshops of plays by new, alumni and commissioned playwrights. -early-career directors lab: a new program for emerging directors that pairs them with an established clubbed thumb playwright and mentors anne kaufman and ken rus schmoll, and gives them space and resources to work on and develop a new play over the course of a semester with playwrights horizons theater students, culminating in workshop productions with professional casts. Literary department: we maintain an open submission policy and solicit scripts from across the country, reading several hundred plays annually. 
