---
name: "The Urban Dove Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133997718
homepage: "www.urbandove.org"
address: |
 Church Street Station PO Box 305, \nNew York, NY 10007
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Urban dove is dedicated to enriching the lives of new york city's at-risk youth by creating a supportive, positive environment where children and teenagers can develop the life skills and confidence they need to reach their full potential. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Urban dove is dedicated to enriching the lives of new york city's at-risk youth by creating a supportive, positive environment where children and teenagers can develop the life skills and confidence they need to reach their full potential. Urban doves mission is to help children, starting as young as eight years old, develop into healthy, successful adults who are economically, socially and emotionally independent. We believe that all children, regardless of their economic or social background, should have access to the resources needed to achieve this independence. The reality, however, is that too many children face incredible challenges and lack the opportunities to realize this future. The most significant barriers include high poverty rates, low high school graduation rates, low college enrollment and persistence rates, and high youth unemployment rates. Urban dove provides support that starts in elementary school and lasts through college and beyond, all with the goal of helping our youth learn and develop the skills and confidence they need to overcome these obstacles. As they achieve their independence, they not only change their own lives, but become agents of lasting change in their families and their communities. While urban dove serves youth as young as eight years old, the majority of our programming focuses on youth ages 13 19. Urban dove works in communities where the number of youth facing challenges is disproportionately high. Our programs are designed to help youth overcome these challenges by identifying their causes and creating interventions that address them. Our program model uses a combination of academics, life skills, job skills and sports to energize, educate and empower youth over many years, building strong, trusting relationships that increase our impact and ensure our outcomes. This year we will deliver services to over 400 at-risk youth. Our programs focus on helping youth achieve meaningful, life-changing, educational outcomes, specifically high school graduation, college enrollment and college graduation. Urban dove programs are fully inclusive accepting any and all youth who have an interest in joining yet we hold all of our youth to the highest standard when it comes to their participation, effort and outcomes. Through support and encouragement from caring adults, we create a safe, positive environment in which our youth learn and develop skills and gain the confidence they need to reach their full potential. To date, 98% of our teenagers have graduated high school, over 95% have gone to college and over 90% have either graduated or remain in college. Some highlights in the past year include: 88% of teenagers returned for the following year 100% of seniors graduated high school and enrolled in college 70% of seniors enrolled in 4 year colleges 100% of juniors took the sat exam; 97% increased their score by an average of 210 points over 90% of college-enrolled freshman completed their freshman year of college overall, over 90% of college-enrolled alumni remain in college urban dove employed 67 teenagers in summer 2014, earning over $60,000 as a group
