---
name: "Mouse Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133973196
homepage: "www.mouse.org"
address: |
 55 Broad Street 16th Fl, \nNew York, NY 10004
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Mouse is a national youth development nonprofit that believes in technology as a force for good. We empower all students to create with technology to solve real problems and make meaningful change in our world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Mouse is a national youth development nonprofit that believes in technology as a force for good. We empower all students to create with technology to solve real problems and make meaningful change in our world. Mouse squadour mouse squad program trains and supports educators to empower a team of students to be digital media and technology experts. With our original, purpose-driven content, including garage robotics, serious games and green tech, students develop the technical, problem-solving, and leadership skills necessary to harness the power of technology to make a positive impact in their schools and communities. - 5,709 students actively participating in the mouse squad program - 617 educators participating in the mouse squad program - 285 mouse sites nationwide - 69% of students at mouse squad schools were eligible for free and reduced price lunch - 14 states with active mouse squads: california, florida, idaho, illinois, michigan, minnesota, missouri, new jersey, new york, north carolina, ohio, oregon, texas, washington; 4 international sites in china, ecuador, jamaica and singaporemouse corpsmouse corps is a youth-centered design and technology program that develops emerging leadership, professional and technical skills of high school students from mouse squads across nyc. Students taking part in this year-long afterschool program are self-proclaimed geeks, techies, artists, activists, innovators and makers who will achieve over 100 hours of applied design, technology, workplace and leadership experience through their participation in the mouse corps program. Mouse corps students brainstorm, prototype, and present a technology project that addresses a social need, while building skills and exploring career pathways with technology mentors across diverse professional settings. Being a member of mouse corps helps students pursue their interests in technology and develop skills essential in todays workforce, including teamwork, project management, design, research, application, analytical thinking, problem solving, and leadership. This year's mouse corps group researched, designed and prototyped 4 innovative legacy projects in fy15, each addressing a challenge identified by research, interviews, and observation in collaboration with volunteers from united cerebral palsy of nyc: - artillo, a digital drawing tool within a soft pillow that interfaces with a computer program, designed for people with limited physical ability who want to make digital art; - game-ability, a 3d printed video game controller and computer game designed to help a variety of users with a variety of physical abilities be able to play games together; - joy to the key, a modified/adapted joystick that interacts with digital keyboard software to help people with limited mobility type and use a mouse; and - shoe-levator, which helps people with limited mobility put on and take off their shoes more easily. Other program highlights - live learning events: mouse held our biggest team training event to date in the fall and a second team training in the spring. At these events, we piloted two new workshops: web making and garage robotics, and had a total of 126 students attending from 21 schools. Our annual coordinator-con event for mouse educators was hosted at google and included a full day of professional development with content such as a hands-on rapid prototyping activity and new workshops on web maker and green tech. Mouse also delivered two half-day conferences for educators in chicago that included hands-on sessions from our web maker, serious games, greentech, and garage robotics content. In addition to multi-site learning events, mouse lead 96 direct support trainings across the national network, including orientation trainings for coordinators and technical trainings for students, both live and online. - mouse squad unplugged events: mouse provided 15 unplugged opportunities for students and educators to strengthen the new york city learning network. These included maker faire, two playtech saturday events, six hive moveable game jams, a level two garage robotics event, a mini-webmaker professional development workshop for mouse educators, and the 7th annual emoti-con! mouse also launched our new maker night event series, which brings together high school aged and professional coders, crafters, 3d designers, whiteboard artists, gamers, and makers and more from all over nyc, and we led a hive game jam with six other organizations at intrinsic schools in chicago with over 35 young people from 20 schools in attendance. - monthly microprojects: mouse had more than 615 submissions for our monthly microproject competitions, which give our students the opportunity to get creative with free online tech tools and cover a wide range of topics, from creating gifs, to remixing games, and designing their own fonts. We were also pleased to see 40 submissions for our diy project, including videos, slide shows, screencasts, and other step by step instructional tools teaching skills possessed by mouse squad members across the nation. - new web literacy content & webmaker institute: 14 educators (3 district representatives and 9 mouse squad coordinators) in 5 states gathered at nyu polys media and games network (magnet) facility to join the first-ever webmaker summer institute. The institute was a joint effort between the mozilla foundation, hive nyc and mouse to utilize mouses network of tech-savvy educators and students to build a national movement of web-literate learners. Learning mouses new web literacy curriculum, including several new activities and a new badge released to mousesquad. Org, the educators spent the year implementing the curriculum at their schools to inspire other educators and students to become part of the webmaker movement. - new privacy & security content: mouse created a whole new set of activities to help young digital users and makers explore the issues of online privacy, security and citizenship. These 9 activities, which will be released next year, cover topics like creating secure passwords, understanding who is collecting your data and why, leaving an online legacy to be proud of, what terms of service agreements are all about, and more! as always, the activities are active, engaging and remixable. - new scratch game design & coding content: mouse released all new activities to our serious game design specialist certification. Now, in addition to exploring game structure, playing games that have socially-responsible themes and learning the game design process, squads will build programming skills by remixing and coding games in mits scratch platform. - squad implementation digital roadmaps: roadmaps are a new feature to help coordinators select mouse squad activities and badges that best align to their squad goals. Whether they are interested in becoming a media & apps squad, a maker squad or a help desk - the roadmaps simplify the process by providing curriculum suggestions, and easy to understand facilitation notes including the time commitment and which wins and badges their students would earn after following the guide. - green tech: green tech give students the tools to learn where electricity comes from, about the technology thats brought us this far into our future, and start to think about what comes next. Students build handheld generators, design batteries, convert electronics to run on solar power and teach others at your school how to get greener about energy! this year, 14 new sites piloted the green tech content and the mouse team shared green tech at conferences such as sxsw edu to gain interest from other educational organizations, as well as a chance to receive feedback from stakeholders across the educational field. - make mousesquad. Org & the sep summer bridge pilot: at the beginning of the year, mouse released a new website, make. Mousesquad. Org, which is a simplified digital learning platform built off of existing tools and code from mousesquad. Org. Make. Mousesquad. Org delivers only mouses specialist badges and curriculum designed to create a more streamlined experience for participants who are only interested in facilitating either garage robotics, serious game design or green tech. Mouse trained a small cohort of educators from two sep (software engineering pilot) schools in nyc to use the new website and to lead specialist activities during their summer bridge sessions in august. This partnership pilot was a huge success and led to 15 new sep schools joining the mouse network in the fall. 
