---
name: "THE NEW YORK AND PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 133957095
homepage: "www.nyp.org"
address: |
 525 East 68th Street BOX 156, \nNew York, NY 10065
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To be a leader in the provision of world class patient care, teaching, research, and service to local, state, national, and international communities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To be a leader in the provision of world class patient care, teaching, research, and service to local, state, national, and international communities. New york-presbyterian, formed by the merger of the former new york hospital and the presbyterian hospital in the city of new york, in january of 1998, is a 2,328-bed, 501(c)(3) not-for-profit, academic medical center. It is committed to the special and complex mission of patient care, teaching, research, and community service. New york-presbyterian offers a full range of services from primary through quaternary care. New york-presbyterian has over 120 fully accredited training programs and over 1,800 full-time equivalent residents and fellows. On july 1st, 2013 the former new york downtown hospital officially merged with new york-presbyterian hospital. The new name of our sixth campus is new york-presbyterian/lower manhattan hospital. The 180-bed community hospital provides high quality, compassionate care and service to the multiple com
  
  the new york and presbyterian hospital provides quality medical care regardless of race, creed, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, handicap, age, or ability to pay. Although reimbursement for services rendered is critical to the operations and stability of the hospital, the hospital recognizes that not all individuals possess the ability to pay for essential medical services and, furthermore, the hospital's mission is to serve the community with respect to health care. Therefore, in keeping with the hospital's commitment to serve all members of the community, the hospital provides the following: free and reduced price medical care (financial assistance/charity care) to the indigent; care to persons covered by governmental programs at below-cost; subsidized health services; and health care activities, medical education and programs to support the community. Community benefit activities include wellness programs, community education programs, health screenings, and a broad variety of community support services, health professionals education, and subsidized health services. The hospital had 124,727 discharges and provided 937,231 outpatient visits (clinic - 674,979 emergency room - 262,252) plus 93,494 ambulatory surgery procedures. 
