---
name: "Media Development Investment Fund Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- religious
- politics
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 134052259
homepage: "www.mdif.org"
address: |
 37 West 20th Street Suite 801, \nNew York, NY 10011
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Media development investment fund invests in independent media around in independent media around the world providing the news, information and debate that people need to build free, thriving societies. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Media development investment fund, inc. (mdif) was established to place program related investments (pris), primarily low-interest loans, to independent newspapers, magazines, news agencies, radio and television stations, and internet-based media outlets in different countries of the world. Mdif offers pris to worthy independent media organizations devoted and persistent in promoting and exercising the principles of free, independent and responsible press. Pris are offered to support projects that broaden and strengthen operations for which these media organizations cannot obtain funding from other sources on economically feasible terms. Many of these media organizations are starved for capital because they work in environments characterized by poorly developed banking systems, economies in transition, lack of fresh investing capital, governments that are very often secretly or openly hostile to the idea of free and independent press, and where lending institutions charge exorbitant, a
  
  mdif provides loan financing by way of 'program related investments' (pris), that allow non-profits to make investments in firms whose work will further their charitable mission. Mdif maintains a segregated pool of funds from which it makes loans and other pris. Loan repayments are recycled through the pool and loaned out repeatedly. With every pri, mdif provides customized training and technical assistance to its beneficiaries, from the first stage of developing a business plan through to the final discharge of the loan. In addition, mdif trains its borrowers and other media organizations in the use and transfer of internet-based technology and its impact on the future development of media business. In determining whether to make a loan or other program-related investment, the fund faces both political and legal risk. The fund makes loans and other program-related investments in countries where political stability may be of concern. This type of risk is assessed before the fund starts operations in a certain country. The legal risk may arise as a result of making loans and other program-related investments in countries with differing legal systems than those of the united states of america. Those systems are sometimes characterized by uncertainty and lack of independent legal institutions, including judiciary. The fund's model loan contract was drafted by u. S. Attorneys and the fund has all loans reviewed by attorneys in the country of each borrower. 
