---
name: "Kenneth Gladstone Building Housing Development Fund Company Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- nature
- social
- funding
- poverty
- arts
ein: 134078893
homepage: "www.jewishhome.org"
address: |
 120 West 106th Street, \nNew York, NY 10025
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The kenneth gladstone building provides safe, affordable, independent apartment living for income-eligible older adults. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The kenneth gladstone building provides safe, affordable, independent apartment living for income-eligible older adults. See schedule othe kenneth gladstone building, an affiliate of jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx, reflects jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx's commitment to providing affordable housing with supportive services in the community. This is jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx's second housing and urban development (hud) section 202 rent-subsidized housing for low-income seniors. The 49 one-bedroom apartment building features community spaces, laundry, parking and landscaped grounds. All apartments have full kitchens and are adaptable for use by disabled persons. Tenants have access to all the healthcare programs and services offered at jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx. In 2014, 52 tenants resided in the gladstone building. The gladstone building, located at 2620 university avenue, bronx, ny, opened in 2005. The building was made possible in part by a generous gift from lucille gladstone, a jewish home lifecare, harry and jeanette weinberg campus, bronx director. Her late husband kenneth had been a resident at jewish home lifecare, manhattan. 
