---
name: "Harlem RBI Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 134025290
homepage: "www.harlemrbi.org"
address: |
 333 East 100th Street Ground Floor, \nNew York, NY 10029
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Harlem rbis mission is to provide inner-city youth with opportunities to play, learn and grow. We use the power of teams to coach, teach and inspire youth to recognize their potential and realize their dreams. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Harlem rbis mission is to provide inner-city youth with opportunities to play, learn and grow. We use the power of teams to coach, teach and inspire youth to recognize their potential and realize their dreams. A sports-based, youth development organization, harlem rbi serves 1,700 youth in east harlem and the south bronx. Harlem rbis mission is to provide inner-city youth with opportunities to play, learn and grow. Harlem rbi uses the power of teams to coach, teach and inspire youth to recognize their potential and realize their dreams. The organization offers a unique brand of youth development where every child plays on a baseball or softball team, while engaging in academic and enrichment activities. This not only teaches youth important values such as teamwork and respect, but also surrounds them with positive role models who will help them become active citizens and leaders in the community. Programs are free of charge and open to all youth, regardless of athletic or academic ability. Harlem rbis deep roots in the community and partnerships with area schools make its programs well known to area residents. The organization expects youth, once they enter middle school, to stick with the programming to and through high school. Youth remain engaged through targeted activities, such as focusing on a team-based approach and offering incentives to teams and individuals for participation and attendance. Once in high school, harlem rbi offers more flexible programming to allow students to explore interests and meet other obligations (child care, etc. ) but still remain engaged in programming that helps them navigate high school and enter college successfully. Harlem rbi offers a continuum of services for youth from kindergarten to college and beyond. Programming is offered year-round; during the school year, elementary school youth meet monday-friday for approximately three hours after school, with middle school youth having up to four hours of programs. High school programming is offered after school each day during the week for two or three hours. Baseball and softball games are played on saturdays, january-september for middle and high school participants. During the summer, elementary youth receive six weeks of full-day programming, with t-ball games on saturdays, and middle school youth have five and a half hours of programming. High school graduates participate in a summer boot camp or internship. High school and college participants are often employed by harlem rbi over the summer as umpires and coaches, which provide essential job training in a supportive environment. 
