---
name: "Hereditary Neuropathy Foundation Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- military
- arts
ein: 134137654
homepage: "www.hnf-cure.org"
address: |
 401 Park Avenue South 10th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10016
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Hnf, inc. , a non-profit dedicated to supporting projects through the therapeutic research in accelerated discovery (triad) program, a collaborative effort with academia, government and industry, to develop treatments for cmt. Currently triad involves many groups that span the drug discovery, drug development, and diagnostics continuum. Education and support of the cmt community to improve quality of life is also a key component of hnf's mission. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Hnf, inc. , a non-profit dedicated to supporting projects through the therapeutic research in accelerated discovery (triad) program, a collaborative effort with academia, government and industry, to develop treatments for cmt. Currently triad involves many groups that span the drug discovery, drug development, and diagnostics continuum. Education and support of the cmt community to improve quality of life is also a key component of hnf's mission. Hnf has continued pre-clinical studies with researchers to translate potential therapies for the charcot-marie-tooth and inherited neuropathy community; specifically charcot-marie-tooth (cmt1a & cmt2a). Developing an additional assay to perform high throughput screen (hts), collaborate with academia and government to implement research strategies for therapy development to include natural history studies, pre-clinical protocols for personalized exercise prescription and functional outcome and endpoint research for cmt/in patients. In addition, the expansion of the global registry for inherited neuropathies (grin), health care provider directory and continued awareness campaigns for cmt and hnf's research program; therapeutic research in accelerated discovery (triad). Ongoing strategic marketing efforts through the hnf's interactive website (www. Hnf-cure. Org), cmt update quarterly newsletter, cmt inspired online patient community and other social media platforms. Hnf has played a key role in setting up sites for a phase 3 clinical trial for a potential therapy to treat cmt1a. 
