---
name: "Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital Center Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 135596828
homepage: "n/a"
address: |
 462 First Avenue No A100, \nNew York, NY 10016
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide support for various recreational and therapeutic activities for patients of bellevue hopsital center in new york city. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To provide support for various recreational and therapeutic activities for patient of bellevue hospital center in new york city. General hospital supportdayroom renovation project new photos the scope of this project was to enhance the patient care environment. Dayrooms are provided on patient units to allow for alternative environments for patients and their visitors to escape the tedium and limiting environment of the hospital room. Decorative upgrades and furnishings for the 20 east dayroom in psychiatry have been completed and other dayrooms have been selected for this multi-year project world trade center clinic funding is provided by nys volunteer disability insurance and the nyc 9/11 unmet needs roundtable to bellevue's world trade center environmental health center (ehc). Payment is provided for the transportation of out of town patients with health issues related to 9/11 who continue to seek healthcare at bellevue's wtc ehc. Patient librarythe patient library provides reading material, including books, newspapers in several languages and periodicals to patients. Provides ipads for cancer center. Emergency room social work office the bellevue er provides almost 150,000 patient visits every year. Social work services are an integral part of the care that patients receive. The existing social work offices in the er are not set up to accommodate the current needs, and require renovation. The auxiliary is working with staff to develop a renovation plan to ensure that the patient care environment meets the needs of both patients and staff. Clothing room - social work department the social work department at bellevue hospital provides clothing for patients in need during their inpatient stay and when they are discharged. Patients are sometimes admitted to bellevue and their clothes must be cut off or disposed of. The clothing room is able to provide clothes to the patients thus ensuring their dignity and ability to be discharged. Sobriety garden patients receiving treatment through the alcoholism clinic benefit from participation in the sobriety garden which builds their sense of achievement and accomplishment. The garden sits on a wedge of land flanked by the main hospital building and the fdr drive. It covers approximately 15,000 square feet. Part of it is cultivated in vegetables, much of it in flowers. Its paths are created from mosaics and stones, accented with folk sculptures made by the patients, creating an inspiring environment for all visitors. Photography activities are also provided to the patients. Dr. Stephen ross fund dr. Ross is interested in expanding the research focus of the federally funded addictive disorders laboratory at bellevue hospital to address the needs of particularly vulnerable and under-served populations with substance abuse disorders, including adolescents, pregnant women and the elderly. The long-term goal of his research is to discover treatments for addictive disorders and for psychological and spiritual distress associated with advanced or terminal cancer. Neurosurgery funding for the specific needs of neurosurgery patients, who have undergone brain and spinal surgery, such as assistive devices, transportation, etc. Restricted funds the auxiliary manages funds for the following programs which are supported through specified donations and revenue from program activities. Chaplaincy funds are provided for the purchase of religious material for the chaplains to distribute to patients. Spiritual guidance is an integral part of patient care and the auxiliary assists by providing the appropriate materials. Smoking cessation fund this program supplies printed materials as well as medications (ie. Nicorette gum) to patients wishing to quit smoking. Quitting smoking has been shown in numerous studies to greatly improve the health of those individuals who are successful. In addition, the elimination of second-hand smoke is beneficial to family and friends as well. Rehabilitation medicine department funds for specialized equipment and supplies for speech, physical & occupational therapy, as well as clothing for patients are provided. 
