---
name: "Russian Children's Welfare Society Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 135562332
homepage: "www.rcws.org"
address: |
 16 West 32 Street No 405, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The russian children's welfare society is dedicated to improving the lives of disadvantaged children in russia by supporting organizations that effectively enhance their health, education, and social welfare. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Our goal is to enable orphanages to meet basic needs, and to promote comprehensive programs that help orphans develop into healthy and independent adults. We support shelters that provide medical care, therapy, vocational training, food & shelter, as well as training programs for foster families. Medical programsamong our many programs, rcws improves the lives of a great number of children at risk in russia by funding their medical care and assisting in the training of russian doctors. Give beauty back to the children - pediatric maxillofacial surgery fundthe russian children's welfare society (rcws) has been involved in several medical assistance projects helping to equip hospitals, promote training of russian doctors in the latest medical advancements, and co-sponsoring the treatment of children. Over six years ago, rcws launched the 'give beauty back to the children' project in partnership with prof. Vitaly roginsky, head of the moscow center for children's maxillofacial surgery (mccms), and lev ambinder, head of the russian aid foundation (rusfond), a charity established by the russian newspaper kommersant. Thousands of children are burdened by unsightly facial deformities as a result of congenital defects, tumors, cleft lips, cleft palates, and other traumas. Mccms is one of the most innovative facilities in russia providing treatment and rehabilitation for children with facial deformities. The 'give beauty back to the children' program has forever altered the lives of over 700 children suffering from facial deformities. Helping children with hiv/aidsofficial government statistics indicate that there are 333,332 russians infected with hiv making russia home to the highest number of people living with hiv/aids in europe today. Since many more are unaware of their hiv status, international organizations believe that the true figure may be somewhere between 800,000 to 1. 5 million. In 2007, rcws started working with the foundation future without hiv/aids and the all russia pediatric aids center in st. Petersburg, which provides assistance to infected orphans and pregnant women. At the pediatric aids center there is a community of 40 sick and orphaned children who receive the attention of a dedicated staff of medical and educational professionals who foster their emotional development and integration into society. The society commends the pediatric aids center for its commitment to children that many regard as a lost cause. Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis project a program that helps children who are stricken with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Over the last several years, rcws has purchased specialized arthritis equipment for the moscow institute of rheumatology and sechenov medical academy. The society has also helped facilitate training for russian rheumatologists in new york and in russia. Many medical professional have been instrumental in the success of this project and advise and guides rcws on how best to help russian children suffering from jra
