---
name: "New York Eye & Ear Infirmary"
tags:
- charitable
- professional
- health
- employment
- social
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 135562304
homepage: "www.nyee.edu"
address: |
 310 East 14th Street, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The new york eye & ear infirmary was established in 1820 to meet the eye care needs of new yorkers, especially the working poor. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

New york eye & ear infirmary was established in 1820 to meet the eye care needs of new yorkers, especially the working poor. In keeping with its heritage, today's new york eye & ear infirmary of mount sinai is a voluntary, not-for-profit specialty hosptial providing comprehensive outpatient and state-of-the-art medical/surgical care in the discipline of ophthalmology, otolaryngology/head & neck surgery, and plastic & reconstructive surgery. Nyee's outpatient ophthalmology and otolaryngology programs provide primary care and treatment in those specialties for the five boroughs of new york city, with concentrations in the institution's historic lower east side patient base, brooklyn and queens. Nyee also serves the regional, national and international communities with unique tertiary medical/surgical specialty services in our fields of expertise. The highest quality, most technologically advanced and consistent multidiscriplinary care in a safe and comfortable environment providing an ongoing series of lectures, seminars and health screenings development of highly qualified, well trained physician/surgeons through programs of residency training. New york eye and ear infirmary provided the following services to residents of its local community in 2014: 489 inpatient discharges 32,363 ambulatory surgery visits 54,227 referred abulatory procedures including 1,259 for the sleep center 123,391 outpatient clinic visits in addition, please reference www. Nyee. Edu for our capabilities report and community information report located under the general information section of the website. 
