---
name: "United Neighborhood Houses of New York Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- elderly
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 135563409
homepage: "www.unhny.org"
address: |
 70 West 36th Street 5th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Unh promotes and strengthens the neighborhood based, multi-service approach to improving the lives of new yorkers in need and the communities in which they live. Unh supports its members through policy development, advocacy and capacity building activities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Unh promotes and strengthens the neighborhood based, multi-service approach to improving the lives of new yorkers in need and the communities in which they live. A membership organization rooted in the history and values of the settlement house movement, unh supports its members through policy development, advocacy and capacity building activities. During 2014, unh had the following program highlights: - brought over 300 nyc youth to albany to be trained and advocate for the summer youth employment program through the campaign for summer jobs, a partnership between unh and neighborhood family services coalition. - mailed care packages to 115 college students from settlement houses to encourage first-generation college students to beat the odds and graduate with a college degree. - honored nine high school seniors with the viacom scholarship. - awarded 63 emily menlo marks scholarships to unh member agency staff to provide tuition assistance. - offered tuition assistance to four staff members from member agencies enrolling at the silberman school of social work at hunter college for the master of social work degree. - launched an initiative called the talent development initiative to help identify and develop the next wave of leaders at settlement houses. - lead 24 students to graduate from unhs emerging leaders management training, which leads to a certificate in nonprofit leadership from cunys baruch college school of public affairs. - held the first ever settlement house day, a day-long conference attended by more than 200 staff from member agencies to promote collegiality and collaboration among nyc settlement houses. - began a new initiative to expand unhs engagement of seniors in bringing fresh food to their communities. - provided $7,500 in planning grants and technical assistance to six unh member agencies as they developed plans for resident-driven initiatives to increase access to healthy food in nycha developments. - worked to improve organizational preparedness for future emergencies by providing workshops and identify resources for member agencies. - connected corporate volunteers to member agencies including: a. Aramark global volunteer day at sunnyside community services in queens,where they assembled healthy soup kids for seniors and families of children in pre- kindergarten, provided healthy snack packs for teens and children, and tackled beautification projects. B. Viacommunity day at hamilton-madison house where they served lunches to over 300 seniors. C. 200 students from scan new york and queens community house attended mets games at citi field where they were treated to a vip program and were encouraged to set and achieve their goals by celebrities. D. Monkey bar at sunnyside community services where they prepared food for lunch and distributed desserts to seniors. E. Wells fargo at educational alliance where they served lunch and hosted an ice cream social. 
