---
name: "Young Judaea Camp Tel Yehudah Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- employment
- social
- greek
- advocacy
- arts
ein: 135654375
homepage: "www.campty.com"
address: |
 575 8th Avenue 11th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Camp tel yehudah inspires jewish and zionist youth from around the world to experience and embrace the diversity of the jewish people in a joyful and diverse community while training them to become leaders who effect positive change for the jewish people, israel and the world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Camp tel yehudah inspires jewish and zionist youth from around the world to experience and embrace the diversity of the jewish people in a joyful and diverse community while training them to become leaders who effect positive change for the jewish people, israel and the world. Camp tel yehudah served 577 teenagers in 2015. These campers came from across the united states as well as from israel, canada, russia and the uk. During their time at tel yehudah they were engaged by our dynamic program of experiential education, activism and leadership development, which connected them to israel and judaism. Over 72 campers participated in our hadracha leadership and activism institute. The highlight of this experience was our day on the hill program in which campers learned from leading advocacy and non-governmental organizations, as well as met with members of the united states congress along with camp alumni involved in all levels of the political process in washington dc. Ninety two campers participated in our havurah program, a unique jewish summer program at camp tel yehudah designed especially for teens from russian-speaking families. The engaging and enriching activities focus on jewish history, culture and tradition with an accent on the participants unique russian-jewish heritage. It is complimented by a wide variety of recreational activities at camp and travel in the northeastern united states. Participants in havurah have a chance to deepen their understanding of jewish culture and develop friendships with their peers within the jewish community. 
