---
name: "The Alan T Brown Foundation"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 136098422
homepage: "www.atbf.org"
address: |
 19 West 44th Street Suite 1519, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The alan t brown foundation (atbf) is dedicated to improving the quality of life for people living with paralysis. Through personal contact we provide information, resource referrals and peer support to the paralyzed individual and their family. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The alan t brown foundation (atbf) is dedicated to improving the quality of life for people living with paralysis. Through personal contact we provide information, resource referrals and peer support to the paralyzed individual and their family. We strive to assist individuals in achieving the highest personal level of independence, sustaining a healthy lifestyle, managing daily and chronic health issues, and adjusting to their new life after paralysis. Atbf outreach programspinal cord injury (sci) turns a life upside down. Although paralysis can occur from any number of reasons an accident, virus, surgery, stroke the end result is the same: altered lives filled with overwhelming challenges, changes and adjustment. The outreach program of the alan t brown foundation to cure paralysis (atbf) offers meaningful assistance and hope in several ways:atbf functions with compassion and understanding as a resource and support system for the newly injured and their families. Telephone counseling is an ongoing and essential component of the foundations outreach mechanism. These calls and meetings can be about coping emotionally, physically and/or psychologically. Atbf disseminates information regarding recommended doctors, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, therapists, travel, fertility options, playing sports, going back to school and so much more. The list is endless. In coping with uncertainty and trauma, it can be reassuring to know that people care. The alan t brown foundation takes great pride in the role it has played, and continues to fulfill, in making a difference in so many lives. Atbf peer mentoring programthe peer mentoring program is under the umbrella of the atbf outreach program. Through the atbf peer mentoring program, lifelines are forged to offer support and assistance in moving forward. The foundation facilitates relationships by connecting the newly injured with those who have 'been there. ' atbf links individuals based on their level of injury, age, common interests, etc. , and also helps bring together spouses, siblings and friends of those who have become paralyzed. Health and fitness program at the mount sinai medical center department of rehabilitationthe foundation runs a health & fitness initiative at the department of rehabilitation at the mount sinai medical center in nyc. This program runs on tuesday and thursday evenings from 5-7pm and consists of a variety of physical exercises to improve the physical and mental health and fitness of in-patient and out-patient individuals with spinal cord injuries. Atbf funds were used for supervision by a physician and recreational therapist and the purchase of exercise equipment including a vita glide, universal weight machine, stationary hand-cycle, upper-toner, speed-bag, free weights, rickshaw and more. Womens support group at the mount sinai medical center department of rehabilitationwomen's support group at mount sinai hospital- this outreach program provides a safe environment for which women with spinal cord injury can discuss various issues, feel empowered to make change, and pursue goals under the guidance of other women with spinal cord injury. Guest speakers and workshops aimed at addressing issues important to women are used to supplement the typical weekly format. Atbf transition care programthe alan t brown foundation transition care program will provide important home care services to un-insured paralyzed patients through the visiting nurse service of new york, reflecting the foundation's decision to focus on quality of life issues. The transition from hospital to home is most often a traumatic and chaotic time for a newly-injured person. Program participants and their families will receive visits from a wide range of health care providers who will help them manage their new physical limitations and daily routines by demonstrating: how to transfer from a wheelchair to a bed, how to take a shower, how to prevent pressure sores, and so much more. The atbf transition care program will be there for those during that crucial time when they are adapting to their new environment as a paralyzed person, and help set the groundwork for their future care. Atbf outreach partners in 2015, we are raising funds to support our own outreach & peer mentoring program, womens support group, transition care program and our health & fitness program, as well as the following external programs:the axis projectthe alan t brown foundation was invited to the launch of the axis project in late-august 2014 by our friends at wheeling forward and wheels of progress. The axis project is a new and innovative social daycare center designed for people with disabilities. The program is located in a 7,500 square foot multidisciplinary center in harlem that offers programs and activities designed to empower and motivate people with physical disabilities to pursue a healthy, active lifestyle. The center is wheelchair accessible and features all accessible equipment. Adults 18 or older who need help with activities of daily living and are medicaid-eligible may participate. The program is located at 1325 fifth avenue on the ground floor in nyc. The entrance is on east 112th street. Key leaders of the program include fitness director, lawrence harding; program co-director, alex elegudin, co-founder of wheeling forward; program co-director, george gallego, founder of wheels of progress; kiki flynn, renowned yoga director; and movement instructor, zazel-chavah ogarra. North shore-lij sports therapy and rehabilitation services (stars) programstars (sports therapy and rehabilitation services), part of the north shore-lij rehabilitation network, helps you and your loved ones find relief from pain and get moving again after an accident, injury, illness or surgery. The experienced and knowledgeable staff of physical therapists, occupational therapists and other health professionals truly understands the meaning of quality care and are chosen as much for their compassion and caring as for their skill and experience. They will provide you with the education, support and motivation you need to get back to your individual level of independence. Stars is located at six easy to access locations throughout long island and queens. Stars east meadow is located at 801 merrick avenue in east meadow, ny 11554. They offer rehabilitation services for persons living with spinal cord injury as well as an array of other services such as: orthopedic and joint replacement rehabilitation, neurological rehabilitation, wheelchair evaluations, balance and vestibular rehabilitation, hand therapy, aquatic therapy, spine care, and fracture and trauma care. Stars offers weekly classes such as multiple sclerosis classes, arthritis aquatic classes and cancer exercise classes. For more information or to learn more about the stars program call (516) 393-8900 or visit www. Northshorelij. Com/stars. The big ideaa project of the christopher & dana reeve foundation- the big idea is a first-of-its-kind campaign aimed at propelling the paralysis community into a new era of groundbreaking research. It's a movement to transform what it means for individuals to live with a spinal cord injury (sci). Epidural stimulation research has restored quality of life and enabled four people living with sci to recover voluntary movements and the ability to stand. Each participant had a chronic motor complete injury, meaning they were completely paralyzed below the injury level and likely would never recover. Like many historic breakthroughs, the effectiveness of epidural stimulation to improve autonomic functions (bladder, bowel, sexual and temperature) was discovered by accident. In fact, the original study was designed to promote stepping and standing. 
