---
name: "Bar Ilan University in Israel Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 136192275
homepage: "www1.biu.ac.il/indexE.php"
address: |
 160 east 56th street, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Biu a public research university in israel with approx. 26,800 students. Biu produces students who excel in the sciences, humanities, law, engineering, business & the arts. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Bar-ilan university is a registered association in israel, the goals of which are to maintain, promote, hold and administer the university as an institution of higher education, in order to foster and promote study and research in all branches of the torah and science in the spirit of the torah and jewish tradition. The university is an accredited institution of higher education, according to the council of higher education law, 5718-1958, which deals with research and teaching. Furthermore, the board of trustees has undertaken to maintain the university as an institution of academic excellence in all spheres-exact sciences,humanities, etc. Which contributes to the jewish character and international standing of the state of israel. The university is aware of the underlying complexities of israeli society and its fundamental problems. Consequently, the university aspires to strengthen dialogue between the various public sectors and strengthen israel as a jewish, zionist and democratic s
  
  first and foremost, bar-ilan university is an institute of higher learning offering bachelor's degree studies, master's degree studies and ph. D. Degree studies to students from around the world. Teaching and research at bar-ilan university are organized within the framework of eight faculties, as listed below: 1. The faculty of jewish studies (which includes the contemporary judaism study program that is currently included within the framework of the faculty of jewish studies and the interdisciplinary studies committee). 2. The faculty of medicine 3. The faculty of law 4. The faculty of social sciences 5. The faculty of exact sciences 6. The faculty of engineering 7. The faculty of life sciences 8. The faculty of humanities the university adheres to its quest for scientific and intellectual excellence. The academic leadership continued to work on encouraging research, improving the academic quality of the departments, promoting teaching and recruiting new staff members, including outstanding scientists returning from abroad and new immigrant scientists - through the implementation of the departmental target model and the 'growth programs' in liberal arts and experimental sciences. Research students and researchers won scholarships and grants, and contributed to the expansion of human knowledge in all fields. The university continued to pursue activities aimed at encouraging university enrollment while raising the bar for admission, absorbing outstanding candidates, and enriching the study programs offered to students. Comprehensive efficiency programs were carried out in all areas of academic administration in order to achieve optimal utilization of academic resources. 
