---
name: "International Center of Medieval ArtInc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 136165508
homepage: "www.medievalart.org"
address: |
 Fort Tryon Park, \nNew York, NY 10040
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The purposes for which the international center of medieval art is formed are to promote and encourage the study, understanding, and appreciation of the visual arts of the middles ages. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The purposes for which the international center of medieval art is formed are to promote and encourage the study, understanding, and appreciation of the visual arts of the middles ages produced in europe, the mediterranean region, and the slavic world, during the period between ca. 300 and ca. 1500 c. E. ; and to this end to sponsor and otherwise support study, teaching, conferences, exhibitions, displays, and publications devoted to medieval art and culture. In 2014, the continuation of work division between the operations administrator who is legally identified as an employee working 32 hours per week, running the offices at the cloisters and overseeing the day-to-day operation of the icma and a programs director who oversees larger programs for example publications including the newly on-line newsletter and similar programs on a for-need hourly basis as an independent contractor has proven a successful model. This has permitted the icma to continue to expand its digital presence. (gesta is now available to members on-line as well as in hard copy. ) along with the continued work of the development committee and its programming, the icma looks for ways to expand its role in the field and the fulfillment of its mission. The international center of medieval art has obtained large grants from the kress foundation which has allowed us to provide support for scholars participating in sessions that we have organized at national and international congresses and to support the research of scholars who are working at a mid-career level. These have been given by the kress foundation as two different grant types, one for research the other for conference sessions. In producing gesta we have continued to provide the leading journal in the field of medieval art in the world, thus supporting the world-wide scholarship in our field. Our publisher, the university of chicago press, in connection with our editor, have provided on-time publications. In 2012-2013, extensive work was carried out to bring the publication up to date. The process of moving to electronic publication of our newsletter is now complete and the icma provides three issues per year, sent via email and posted to our website for members-only. Our newsletter, web-site, face-book fan-page, and e-mail announcements provide major sources of immediate and current information, news, and opportunities for communication in the field world-wide. During 2014, we began the process of revising the web-site. The icma was able to carry out the process of shifting to chicago owing to its substantial endowment developed through the endowment campaign carried out at the time of the icma 50th anniversary. We now provide a stipend for the icma scholarly editor of the journal and pay per hour for copy-editing. Much of this is covered through our endowment parker, intended to support the journal, but also through a small stipend from the university of chicago which covers approximately half of the copy-editing. Work on the gothic census, part iii, continues. Editors and principle investigators had collected and edited most of the entries and obtained all of the photography for the project by the close of 2012. Most of the funds from the national endowment of the humanities grant were used by the close of 2009, although some funds remained into 2010. The neh grant was completed at the end of june 2010. The final narrative and financial reports were submitted to the neh by the deadline of september 30, 2010. We obtained short-term extensions for use of the getty foundation grant in order to carry out work on the design and editing of the census into early 2013. (the editors, susan ward and joan holladay, were not compensated in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014) the icma currently supports the work of an editor and designer through our own funds, although the production cost at this point is not large. We expect expenses in 2016 as we move to publication. Our programs director has identified a publisher. 
