---
name: "Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 136193105
homepage: "www.ccfa.org"
address: |
 733 Third Avenue, \nNew York, NY 10017
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To cure crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, and to improve the quality of life of children and adults affected by these diseases. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

For over four decades, the crohn's & colitis foundation ('ccfa') has been dedicated to its mission of finding a cure for crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis and improving the quality of life of children and adults affected by these diseases. Ccfa has defined itself by sponsoring the best and brightest researchers and seeding the field with groundbreaking studies and research initiatives to advance the understanding and treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases ('ibd'). Research - since its inception, ccfa has been at the forefront of medical research in crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis -collectively known as inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). There are two main research categories. Basic research explores the scientific foundations of the diseases. It answers such questions as: what is the underlying cause of crohn's and colitis? which genes are involved in these diseases? although basic research is complex and can be difficult for laypersons to understand, these studies will ultimately lead to the cure for ibd. Clinical research determines which medical and surgical options work best for patients. - ccfa has played a significant role in many major scientific breakthroughs in ibd, from generating data that led to new therapies to the discovery of the first gene for crohn's. - ccfa invests in human resources: it takes 10 years to 'build' a full-fledged, senior investigator. To make sure that the most talented researchers enter and remain in the field of ibd, ccfa provides research training awards to develop the next generation of investigators. Many of today's most prominent researchers received training awards from ccfa early in their careers. - ccfa sets the research agenda: ccfa brings together the finest minds in the international scientific community (both basic and clinical) to develop and update our strategic plan for research 'challenges in ibd research'. - ccfa supports innovative and essential research in the field of ibd. Since its inception in 1967, ccfa has funded over 1,400 projects and invested $224 million in research. Ccfa-funded grantees have received nearly $2. 9 billion in funding from the united states national institutes of health. This figure represents a return on investment of 7. 1 federal awards per ccfa-sponsored project. - ccfa-sponsored grantees have also received funding from internationally renowned organizations including 25 divisions of the united states national institutes of health, the john d. And catherine macarthur foundation, the leona m. And harry b. Helmsley charitable trust and the bill and melinda gates foundation. - ccfa has invested $9. 3 million on projects conducted in fifteen nations outside the united states. - ccfa training award recipients have successfully used their projects as a launch pad for successful careers in ibd research. For example, ccfa's $29 million commitment to career development awardees has resulted in $158 million in federal support. 
