---
name: "The Fund for Animals Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- rehabilitation
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 136218740
homepage: "www.FundforAnimals.org"
address: |
 200 West 57th Street, \nNew York, NY 10019
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To operate animal care facilities and to advocate for animal protection. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To provide sanctuary, medical treatment, rehabilitation and release or re-homing, and other hands-on care and rescue of exploited, injured, orphaned, and abandoned animals; to promote the humane treatment of all animals and the prevention of cruelty through education and advocacy; and to foster humane conduct toward animals and encourage and support cooperation toward that end among all persons and entities interested in humane activities. The fund for animals was founded in 1967 by prominent author and animal advocate cleveland amory. For more than four decades, the fund has protected animals by operating a network of animal care facilities, while at the same time employing national animal advocacy campaigns to protect animals from cruelty and abuse. Direct animal care services: the fund for animals operates the nation's largest and most diverse network of animal care centers. It provides hands-on care and safe haven for more than 3,000 animals representing 150 species each year, including those rescued from cruelty and neglect, victims of the exotic pet trade, injured and orphaned wildlife, refugees from research labs and more, and works to prevent cruelty through advocacy and education. The fund for animals has four animal care centers. (1. ) cleveland amory black beauty ranch in murchinson, tx is a 1,437 acre sanctuary for approximately 1,000 animals, representing 42 species, rescued from abuse or abandonment. Rescued animal residents include exotic and domestic species including horses and burros, cattle and buffalo, deer, pigs, tortoise, tigers, chimpanzees, and other primate species. Animals rescued from cruelty cases or other forms of abuse receive veterinary care and a permanent safe haven. The doris day equine center, a program of the cleveland amory black beauty ranch, provides care and rehabilitation for horses rescued from cruelty and neglect cases. The center focuses on developing optimum programs to elevate the public perception of horses rescued from cruelty and neglect. In addition to hands-on rescue, rehabilitation, training and placement of equines the center serves as a resource and support system to rescue centers around the country. In 2014, the center provided training to advance further placement of homeless horses from around the country, increasing our impact. (2. ) cape wildlife center in cape cod, ma, is a five-acre facility and model rehabilitation program for native wildlife, with a state-requested focus on challenging rabies vector species, providing medical and rehabilitative treatment to injured and orphaned animals and releasing them back into the wild. The cape wildlife center is an integral part of the cape community, advising people on humane solutions to human-wildlife conflicts, while supporting public policies that benefit wild animals and their habitats. The center is making humane advancements in wildlife veterinary care and rehabilitation, seeking solutions for ecological challenges affecting wildlife and human populations and training current and future wildlife veterinarians. In 2014, more than 1,820 animals received care at the center, including an increased number of rabies vector species. (3. ) the fund for animals wildlife center, in ramona, ca, a 13-acre facility, provides medical treatment, care and rehabilitation of native wildlife, and releases them back into the wild. The center focuses primarily on the rehabilitation and release of predator species native to california, such as skunks, coyotes, bobcats, eagles, hawks, and owls. In 2014, 550 animals received care and treatment. Presently, 15 non-releasable or non-native animals rescued from the exotic pet trade and cruelty cases live at the center, including a pygmy hippo, several bobcats, and a mountain lion, all of whom once languished in the hands of private owners. In addition, the center serves as a shelter for a colony of 35 feral cats rescued from nearby san nicolas island. In 2014 the center modified an outdoor recovery habitat expanding the center's capacity to provide care and treatment for increased native wildlife capacity. At the request of the state of california, the center accepted and successfully rehabilitated black bears, a new species for the center. (4. ) duchess wildlife sanctuary, in oakland, or, is a 1,120-acre facility established to care for about 200 formerly abused, exploited, and neglected horses. Mares rescued from the pregnant mare urine (pmu) industry and their offspring make up the majority of the herd. The center also provides temporary sanctuary for the rehabilitation and recovery of horses rescued from cruelty cases. In 2014, property improvements included water reserve tanks and additional fenced pastures. The fund for animals continued to support other animal sanctuaries and direct animal care programs. In 2014, the fund provided financial support to the rabbit sanctuary, inc. In simpsonville, sc, which provides a home to rescued rabbits. 
