---
name: "Associated Medical Schools of New York"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- sports
- technology
- arts
ein: 136214887
homepage: "www.amsny.org"
address: |
 1270 Avenue of the Americas, \nNew York, NY 10020
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Amsny is a consortium of new york's sixteen public and private medical schools. Its mission is to promote high quality and cost-efficient health care by assuring that the medical schools of new york state provide outstanding medical education, care and research. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Amsny is a consortium of new york's sixteen public and private medical schools. Its mission is to promote high quality and cost-efficient health care by assuring that the medical schools of new york state provide outstanding medical education, care and research. The associated medical schools of new york (amnsy) sponsors four post-baccalaureate programs across the state, focusing on underrepresented minority, and educationally and economically disadvantaged students. To enter these programs, students apply to a new york state medical school and are referred by that school to one of the programs. Upon successful completion, students are guaranteed admission to the referring medical school. Amsnys longest running post-baccalaureate program was launched in 1991 at the university at buffalo jacobs school of medicine and biomedical sciences. The following medical schools refer students to the program:albany medical college albert einstein college of medicinehofstra northwell school of medicinenew york institute of technology college of osteopathic medicinenew york medical collegeuniversity at buffalo jacobs school of medicine and biomedical sciences, sunystony brook university school of medicinesuny downstate medical centersuny upstate medical universityuniversity of rochester school of medicine and dentistrythe post-baccalaureate program has since been expanded to include three additional schools that offer students a masters degree upon completion. These schools include: new york medical college, stony brook university school of medicine, and suny upstate medical university. Outcomes from these initiatives are quite positive; 93 percent of students who enter amsny post-baccalaureate programs matriculate into medical school. Amsny also supports several additional diversity pipeline programs to expand the pool of underrepresented students in medicine at the cuny school of medicine, icahn school of medicine at mount sinai, city college of new york and albert einstein college of medicine. 
