---
name: "Math For America"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 200651886
homepage: "WWW.MATHFORAMERICA.ORG"
address: |
 915 BROADWAY 16TH FLOOR, \nNew York, NY 10010
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Mfa makes teaching a viable, rewarding and respected career choice for the best minds in science and mathematics. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

At math for america, we do everything we can to make teaching a viable, rewarding, and respected career choice for the best minds in science and mathematics. Our master teacher fellowship achieves this goal by bringing together outstanding, experienced teachers to share knowledge, advance teaching skills, and define excellence itself. Teachers receive a stipend of $15,000 each year as professional compensation. This remarkable community of teachers is changing the landscape of science and mathematics education. We offer fellowships and advocate for our model around the country, so that we can get great math and science teachers - teachers who are true masters of the subject matter and deeply committed to the craft of teaching - in front of every student in america. Mfa fellowship is for recent college graduates who train for a year and then join a corps of teachers who make a four year commitment to teach in nyc public schools. Early career fellowship is for math and science teachers in their first few years of teaching who join the mfa corps. Master teacher fellowship is for exceptional math and science teachers in mid/advanced stages of their career who join the mfa corps and lead within the community. School leader fellowship is for principals and other school-level supervisors who have a deep commitment and knowledge of math and science and work to support those departments within their respective schools. All fellowships provide extensive professional development and generous stipends for members of the community. 
