---
name: "Academics In Motion Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 201890245
homepage: "AcademicsInMotion.org"
address: |
 16 East 34th St 17th Fl, \nNew York, NY 10016
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Aim levels the playing field by providing schools that do not have extended resources with a viable and active youth development program to assist the coaches, teachers, and administration to best prepare their students for a healthy and productive adulthood. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Aim levels the playing field by providing schools that do not have extended resources with a viable and active youth development program to assist the coaches, teachers, and administration to best prepare their students for a healthy and productive adulthood. Aim is a broad based mentoring program that uses the students natural qualities of being a part of a team (competition, leadership, hardwork, sacrifice, dedication, respect, integrity, etc) and teaches them how to transfer those qualities to the classroom and life. By connecting these natural qualities the students gain confidence and build a foundation to be successful in the classroom and in life. Aim accomplishes this through a systematic approach of our ydc (mentor), training and development, program management, research and evaluation, community coalition. The ydc uses logical tools that include a life skills curriculum (goal setting, getting organized, time management, study skills, effective thinking, attention control and memory, stress management, leadership, conflict resolution), community service, one-on-one planning, study hall, sat and pre-sat prep, college visits, etc. Training and development is a key component that ensures the ydcs are staying on course and addresses the needs of the students as potentially new issues arise. This also will help maintain the integrity of the program and insure best practices are implemented. Research and evaluation allows aim to determine whether the program is effective and hitting the target numbers. This component also allows management to determine where and if we need to tweak the program to insure success. Community coalition enables the different folks within the community to organize around a common interest and have a positive effect. Achievements:increased gpaincreased classroom attendanceincreased participation in psat/satincreased on to college rateincreased graduation rateincreased community service hours completedcompleted on average 8 life skill components
