---
name: "Jewish Community Project of Lower Manhattan Nursery School"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- arts
ein: 205296850
homepage: "www.jcpdowntown.org"
address: |
 146 Duane Street, \nNew York, NY 10013
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The jcp preschool fosters the growth of each child in a nurturing environment that supports all areas of their development (including cognitive, social and emotional) and encourages emerging independence. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The jcp preschool fosters the growth of each child in a nurturing environment that supports all areas of their development (including cognitive, social and emotional) and encourages emerging independence. We believe in flexibility within structure allowing children a great deal of opportunity for exploration and discovery as they seek meaning in the world, while feeling the security of appropriate boundaries. We work hand in hand with parents to form partnerships of trust and to set appropriate goals for children. We believe in the joy of learning and the independence of a secure environment that encourages exploration. We respect the uniqueness of each child as well as the importance of community. 1. Throughout the year children participated in all-school holiday assemblies with music specialist joanie leeds. The assemblies provided opportunities for the whole school to sing together and to expand upon weekly in-class music sessions with joanie. The assemblies included festive school-wide shabbat celebrations, which also functioned as extensions of weekly in-class shabbat gatherings. 2. Teachers and staff benefited from a wide range of on site and off site professional development opportunities including workshops on sensory integration, speech development in young children, cultivating arts appreciation in preschoolers, and parent communication, among many other topics. 3. The school parenting center partnered with the downtown community center to offer expanded parenting classes, including a series taught by noted psychiatrist and jcp parent, dr. Alan schlechter. 
