---
name: "Economic Mobility Corporation"
tags:
- education
- professional
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 208720134
homepage: "www.economicmobilitycorp.org"
address: |
 233 Broadway 12th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10279
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The economic mobility corporation (mobility) identifies, develops and evaluates programs and policies that enable disadvantaged individuals to acquire the education, skills and networks needed to succeed in the labor market. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The economic mobility corporation (mobility) identifies, develops and evaluates programs and policies that enable disadvantaged individuals to acquire the education, skills and networks needed to succeed in the labor market so that they can support themselves and their families. Quest evaluation: mobility is conducting a study of project quest that uses a randomized controlled trial design to assess the programs impacts on participants. Project quest, a nonprofit organization in san antonio, helps local residents access skills training to achieve its goals of promoting long-term employment and higher incomes among residents while meeting local businesses needs for skilled workers and enhancing the areas economic vitality. Quests strategy is to identify the skills required to succeed in hard-to-fill occupations and then recruit, train, and develop adults so that they are qualified and ready to fill employers' needs. Quest serves both individuals who are academically ready to begin college-level classes as well as those who first need to improve basic skills. The study includes 207 treatment group members and 203 control group members, of whom 84 percent completed a follow-up survey six years after study enrollment. Mobility will publish two reports from the evaluation to inform the work of funders, policymakers, and practitioners in the workforce development field. One report will present the findings on quests impacts on participants employment, earnings, credential attainment, education, and other indicators of financial well-being. The second report will take a more qualitative look at the quest participants, their experiences with the program, and how their families lives changed after participating in the program. 
