---
name: "The Joan Ganz Cooney Center for Educational Media and Research Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- family
- nature
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 208783702
homepage: "www.joanganzcooneycenter.org"
address: |
 One Lincoln Plaza, \nNew York, NY 10023
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The mission of the center is to catalyze and support research, innovation and investment in digital media technologies to advance children's learning. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The cooney center is an independent research and innovation lab that catalyzes and supports research, development, and investment in digital media technologies to advance children's learning. The focus of the cooney center is on literacy development for diverse learners. Programs address vital foundational capabilities, such as reading and writing, with a special emphasis on struggling readers who risk educational failure if they do not master basic competencies by grade 4. The cooney center is also focusing national attention on evolving 'new literacies' that children need to compete and cooperate in the 21st century. Major initiatives focus on inter-cultural understanding, media literacy, and advancing science, technology, engineering and math (stem) learning -- all of which have become critical in an interconnected world. Research: a. Cooney center fellows program: three fellows were funded to conduct independent research, help form university partnerships and support the center's research and public dissemination pursuits. B. Field research: the research program focused on various mission-related topics, including a study of literacy apps in apple itunes and google play story platforms and a national science foundation supported study on the role of digital games and stem competencies. Research also included two national surveys of parents: one focused on their children's educational media use, the other on digital equity (i. E. , internet connectivity) in low-income households and us school districts. A third national survey focused on how educators are using digital games in their classrooms. Researchers in a national consortium organized by the center conducted a series of ethnographic studies on the ways families interact with and around media at home, in schools and in community settings with a focus in particular on hispanic-latino families. The field study sites included san francisco, new york city, phoenix, chula vista, denver and chicago and included subjects from different countries of origin including mexico, ecuador, el salvador and puerto rico. The center published seven research papers reporting on findings from the field research, as well as a casebook and design guide on producing media for diverse families. Finally, the center published a guide for parents on how to use apps with children to enhance learning and family engagement. 
