---
name: "Single Stop USA Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 208837690
homepage: "www.singlestopusa.org"
address: |
 123 William Street Suite 901, \nNew York, NY 10038
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Single stop usa is an innovative national program that aims to slash poverty nationwide with its highly effective 'one-stop-shop' approach. See schedule o. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Single stop usa is an innovative national program that aims to slash poverty nationwide with its highly effective 'one-stop-shop' approach. Single stop builds a bridge between low-income households and the vast untapped government resources intended for them, and maximizes the impact of these benefits with financial education, legal services and expert counseling. The combination of resources, counseling and education is crucial to helping families move from crisis to stability, establish self-sufficiency and ultimately achieve economic mobility. Single stop harnesses americas most effective anti-poverty tools to create economic mobility for low-income families and individuals. Single stop breaks the cycle of poverty by leveraging existing financial resources with opportunities for education, counseling, training, and supporta powerful recipe for lifelong financial stability. Single stops one-stop-shop model provides unprecedented ease of access to a holistic set of services, in one place at one time, utilizing technology to create maximum impact. Since 2007, single stop and its partners across 100 sites in eight states connected 1 million families and individuals with nearly $3 billion in public resources, tax refunds, and supportive services. In 2014, single stop and its network of community-based organizations, community college, and other institutional partners connected nearly 182,000 low-income households in eight states (california, florida, louisiana, massachusetts, mississippi, new york, new jersey, and pennsylvania) to life-sustaining public resources and local services valued at more than $536 million, including child care subsidies, financial aid, health insurance, tax refunds, snap (food stamps), and housing assistance. At each partner institution, a single stop site coordinator uses our propriety technology to let individuals and their families know in as little as 15 minutes what public resources and local services they are likely eligible for and then guides them through the application process. Sites also offer free financial counseling, legal services, and tax preparation. An internal analysis shows that for every dollar invested, single stop obtains for clients $20 worth of public resources, tax refunds and local services. In 2014, single stop continued to expand and deepen our services to fight poverty. Single stop augmented its nationwide community college expansion strategy with the opening of new sites at roxbury community college and springfield technical community college in massachusetts, as well as three campuses at hinds community college in mississippi. In 2014, single stops new york-based programs served approximately 155,000 low-income households, connecting them to resources and services valued at nearly $501 million. The new york programs also explored and forged new multi-stakeholder strategies to bring the single stop model to particularly high-needs populations, including senior citizens and chronically homeless families. Further, in the second implementation year of the affordable care act, single stops health care navigation program enrolled 4,910 households into health care. The estimated value of this drawdown is $53 million. 
