---
name: "CSC Repertory LTD DBA Classic Stage Company"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 237025308
homepage: "www.classicstage.org"
address: |
 136 East 13th Street, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Classic stage company is the award-winning off-broadway theater committed to re-imagining the classical repertory for a contemporary american audience. Classic stage company presents plays from the past that speak directly to the issues of today. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Classic stage company is the award-winning off-broadway theater committed to re-imagining the classical repertory for a contemporary american audience. Classic stage company presents plays from the past that speak directly to the issues of today. Classic stage company, a home for much challenge and pleasure (newsday), continued to push the boundaries of re-imagining the classical repertory for todays audiences over the past year. Our 2014/2015 season featured four ambitious productions, a host of enriching parallel programming, our innovative education program, and a wide range of accessibility initiatives. I. Productionsallegromusic by richard rodgersbook and lyrics by oscar hammerstein iidirected by john doyle november 1 december 14, 2014cscs associate director john doyle (tony award winner, sweeney todd), who also directed the companys critically acclaimed 2013 production of passion, opened the 2014/2015 season with his interpretation of allegro. This rarely seen rodgers & hammerstein musical was originally produced just after the huge successes of their first two musicals, oklahoma! and carousel. Allegro is a loving and wise exploration of americas coming of age following the life of joe taylor, jr. , a young physician learning about the mysteries of life and death. Ben brantley of the new york times hailed the production as deeply personal and musically hypnotic. A month in the countryby ivan turgenevtranslated by john christopher jonesdirected by erica schmidtfeaturing peter dinklage and taylor schillingjanuary 9 february 28, 2015visionary director erica schmidt led a cast including peter dinklage (game of thrones) and taylor schilling (orange is the new black) in ivan turgenevs masterpiece, a month in the country. Turgenevs work, first staged in 1872 after a twenty year ban by the saint petersburg censor, chronicles the comic and erotic turmoil that befalls an otherwise quiet country estate when a handsome young tutor arrives to teach natalya petrovnas young son. The new yorker praised, erica schmidts production hits the right notes. Its a pleasure to see schilling and dinklage show their range. New york 1 heralded it as a wonderfully vibrant production. Hamletby william shakespearedirected by austin pendletonfeaturing peter sarsgaardmarch 27 may 10, 2015director austin pendleton and leading man peter sarsgaard paired up for the first time since cscs 2009 uncle vanya to present shakespeares hamlet in the third production of the 2014/2015 season. Sarsgaards frenetic portrayal of the conflicted prince of denmark was mesmerizing in this riveting and contemporary take on the timeless tragedy. The new york post applauded, peter sarsgaards performance as shakespeares vengeful prince is fully committed in every sense of the word. He makes the most of his distinctive tenor voice; vulnerable and unsettling in turn. Doctor faustusadapted by david bridel & andrei belgraderfrom the play by christopher marlowedirected by andrei belgraderfeaturing chris noth and zach grenierjune 2 july 12, 2015csc welcomed chris noth (sex and the city) to close out the 2014/2015 season in christopher marlowes doctor faustus. Inspired by the german legend faust, marlowes play focuses on a pact with the devil the doctors soul in exchange of 24 years of power and invincible revelry. Doctor faustus remains as ahead of its time today as it was when it first scandalized audiences four hundred years ago. Andrei belgrader and david bridels adaptation (merging text from the original work as well as more recent adaptations), interpreted in the style of commedia dellarte, was heralded by newsday as laugh-out-loud accessible to 21st century audiences. Ii. The young company education programthe young company made shakespeare alive and accessible to underserved middle- and high-school students through a series of in-school workshops and a dynamic production of a midsummer nights dream, specially designed to engage young audiences, featuring a diverse cast along with contemporary music, costumes, and sensibilities. Our 2014/2015 education program included a series of up to six in-school workshops, led by teaching artists drawn from columbia universitys graduate theatre division (who also made up the cast of a midsummer nights dream). These talented teaching artists led the students in explorations of shakespeares language, physical improvisations, and acting exercises centered on themes from the play through a variety of interactive voice, movement, and character development workshops. Working with the text hands-on, experiencing it live onstage, and then taking ownership of the material themselves, the teens honed skills comprehending complex text while learning that shakespeare is still relevant in their 21st-century lives. By utilizing young artists to inspire young audiences, this innovative education program brought the power of live theatre to over 2,521 students via 17 performances and 295 in-school and post-performance workshops. The production ran from march 2 15, with weekday matinee performances and performances on select evenings. Each performance ran approximately 90 minutes to accommodate the time constraints of a field trip during the school day. A total of 33 schools throughout the new york city metro area participated in the young company program this year. We also established contacts with hundreds of other schools with whom we hope to work in the future. The following schools and outreach groups participated in the 2014/2015 program year: manhattancity and country schoolcity-as-school high schoolthe college academycolumbia grammar and preparatory high schooleast side middle schoolgeorge jackson academygrace church schoolharlem academyhigh school for the dual language and asian studiesschool of the future high schoolstephen gaynor schoolvillage community schoolbronxbronx bridges high schoolbronx envision academycardinal spellman high schoolclaremont international high schoolurban institute of mathematicsbrooklynberkeley carroll schoolbrooklyn studio secondary schooleagle academy for young men iiebc high school for public servicebushwick international high school at lafayettejames madison high schoolschool for international studieswilliamsburg preparatory schoolqueensaviation career and technical education high schoolgarden schooljhs 074 nathaniel hawthorne queens high school of teaching, liberal arts and the sciencesrenaissance charter schoolthe summit schoolnew jerseyharrison high schoolindian hills high school in addition to the young company matinees, csc offered 12 school-day performances of mainstage productions that complemented school curriculum. A total of 37 specialty workshops were taught specific to these productions, serving a total of 552 students in 12 schools. On may 4, csc hosted the third annual shakespeare smackdown scene contest, which enabled interested students who had already participated in this years program to perform on cscs stage with scenes from a midsummer nights dream. No two groups presented the same scene, and the scenes were performed in the order that they appeared in the play. The effect was a collaborative, student-driven mini-production. A total of 85 students from 8 new york city schools participated in this exciting evening. Finally, csc expanded its teen council program, nextgen, to include 16 students. The nextgen students received in-depth arts management experience including writing for cscs blog, helping coordinate the shakespeare smackdown, and hosting teen takeover performances where their peers could attend our productions for only $10. 
