---
name: "HARLEM CHILDREN'S ZONE INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 237112974
homepage: "WWW.HCZ.ORG"
address: |
 35 East 125th Street, \nNew York, NY 10035
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Hcz is a pioneering, non-profit community based organization that works to enhance the quality of life for children and families in some of nyc's most devastated neighborhoods. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Harlem children's zone is commited to breaking the cycle of poverty in central harlem by working at scale to build community, strengthen families, and ensure our children succeed from birth through college graduation. We have created an interlocking network of programs so that our students can successfully graduate from college, enter the high-skills job market and become productive, tax-paying members of society. Our goal is to ensure that our kids grow up to become well-rounded, successful, healthy, civic-minded citizens. Hcz's unique approach is to provide supports for each stage of a child's development and address any barrier to his or her academic success. Our early-childhood programs help build a strong foundation for later learning. Our elementary-school programs support students in the local traditional public schools by providing assistant teachers during the day who also run enriching programs after school. Our two k-12 charter schools are staffed with dedicated, quality tea
  
  the harlem children's zone offers a comprehensive network of education, social-service and community-building programs across a 97-block area of central harlem. The harlem children's zone supports children from birth through college as well as working with the adults around them. The organization serves more than 13,000 children - most of whom go to traditional public schools - and more than 13,000 adults. The organization has been successful in teaching new parents how to engage with their children to optimize brain development, which sets the stage for later academic success. The baby college parenting workshops have graduated more than 5,000 parents and caregivers since it began in 2000. In the harlem gems pre-kindergarten programs, three- and four-year-olds attend an all-day, year-round program that teaches in english, spanish and french. In 2014, 100% of the children who completed the harlem gems pre-school program have been assessed as 'school ready,' as determined by the nationally recognized bracken scale assessment. We provide supports for students in all the traditional public elementary schools within the harlem children's zone both during the school day and after school. We work with middle-school and high-school students through several after-school programs, making sure they are ready for college, offering personalized tutoring in math, science, history and all subjects; writing workshops; sat and act prep and tours of college campuses; in addition to providing access to other fun, enriching disciplines. We have more than 900 students in college and to make sure they are successful, our college success office offers a variety of supports: tutoring, scholarships, financial aid counseling, time management classes, as well as resume-writing and interview workshops. Each student is assigned an advisor who stays in regular contact and visits the school to make sure the student is getting the supports they need and is staying on track for graduation. We also help students with getting workplace experience through paid internships in companies, health-care institutions, government agencies and non-profits as well as employing them to help with programs at hcz. 
