---
name: "MABOU MINES DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- gender
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 237396613
homepage: "www.maboumines.org"
address: |
 PO Box 777, \nNew York, NY 10009
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Mabou mines development foundation creates, develops, produces and performs contemporary theater works both nationally and internationally. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Mabou mines development foundation creates, develops, produces and performs contemporary theater works both nationally and internationally. New york performances last season mabou mines co-produced mabou mines associate artist david neumanns bessie award winning dance-theatre piece, i understand everything better based on the loss of his parents in 2012, frederick neumann and honora fergusson, both of whom were mabou mines artistic directors and associate, respectively. I understand everything better, which takes its inspiration from kabuki and japanese noh theatre, ran at the abrons arts center for three weeks from april 6-26, 2015. The new york times called it neumanns most confident work. . . A sinuous blurring of fiction and truth that mines and merges topics dying and caretaking, death and nature to address unanswerable questions but also very funny. In collaboration with barnard college/columbia university, mabou mines adapted a workshop of goethe's faust part 2 -- a post-modern theatrical meditation on liberalness exploitation of people and nature, corrupted profit making, and corporate/political manipulation. The play within a play performance structure casts mephistopheles and faust as theater director and leading actor. The project is lead by mines co-artistic director sharon fog arty, set and lighting designer jim clay burgh (wooster group founding member), composer daniel moses schrieffer (drama desk and obie award winner) and costume designer marsha ginsberg (nysca ind. Artist awardee for this project). In addition the project was developed at the orchard project upstate new york in june 2015, and a script workshop at the new york theater workshop in december 2015. Touring on tour, mabou mines presented lucias chapters of coming forth by day at the theatre royal during the brighton festival, uk in may 2015. Written and directed by co-artistic director sharon fogarty and featuring tony nominated actress maria tucci in the title role, this piece centers on lucia joyce, james joyces adored daughter who was institutionalized for much of her life. The guardian cited ms. Tuccis portrayal of lucia as capturing something wayward and childlike. . . Floating above her own memories. In development prior to her death, founding co-artistic director ruth maleczech was working on a moliere adaptation, imagining the imaginary invalid. Over the last year, choreographer, director, and ruths daughter, clove galilee, has been continuing her mothers work. Using molieres seminal play about the evils of the medical industry, mabou mines imagining the imaginary invalid takes you backstage as the cast prepares the set and tries to rehearse scenes from the play amidst personal discussions about money, medicine, politics, loss and the nature of inspiration. As the audience watches the action unfold in layers, ballets spontaneously spring out of costume fittings, scenes devolve into arguments about art, money, and health and the performers struggle to create a performance in the wake of the loss of a leading player. Founding artistic director lee breuers newest work, glass guignol: the brother and sister play a new performance piece inspired by the life and works of tennessee williams. As an exploration of the americans fascination/struggle with gender politics, the production features obie winning actors greg mehrten in the role of tennessee williams and maude mitchell as his sister rose. Viewed through the frame of williams two character play, in glass guignol, breuer will use williams shift from traditional to more experimental work using 'realism' as a jumping off point, glass guignol utilizes elements of grand guignol -- a theatre of meticulous, obsessive, emotional intensity and bizarre, often disturbing, eroticism to examine americas fascination/fear of gender identity. This production will be the centerpiece of the companys inaugural season in the new theater at the 122 cc. The segal center hosted an evening of the films of lee breuer that took place at the cuny graduate center in march 2015. This event was the first public us presentation of the film, mabou mines dollhouse produced by arte in 2008 as well as many never-seen videos and films of mabou mines and lees work. Resident artist program mabou mines/suite, established in 1991, is the company's annual resident artist program, a laboratory for emerging artists to experiment with performance ideas. As an established company with a long history of creating innovative work, it is mabou mines' privilege and responsibility to support and mentor the next generation. The program is open to individual artists and small companies of all disciplines - visual artists, choreographers, composers, playwrights, designers etc. This program has proved demonstrably successful a number of past residents have gone on to fulfilling and recognized careers, including mallory catlett and eric lockley (obie award); lynn nottage (pulitzer prize); adam rapp (pulitzer prize finalist); tanya barfield (pulitzer prize nominee); jake margolin (nyfa fellowship printmaking/drawing/book arts finalist), and matt olmos (bbc international playwriting top prize of the americas, la mama etc 2012 emerging playwright award). The 6-month residency offers emerging artists rehearsal space to explore and create, mentoring, a $2,500 stipend, administrative and technical assistance, marketing, publicrelations and work-in-progress showings at the conclusion of the residency. Mabou mines also provides fundraising support by promoting residents indiegogo campaigns for their work-in-progress productions on our facebook page with more than 5,000 friends. All participants attended monthly meetings, creating an artistic community through shared reflection and sharing of ideas. The 2015 mentors were mabou mines co-founder joanne akalaitis, co-artistic directors sharon fogarty and karen kandel, and associate artist david neumann. Due to the renovation of our space at 122 cc, the 2015 program was held in 2 alternate locations: spaceworks in long island city where residents developed their work, and clemente soto velez cultural & educational center on the lower east side for the performances. In recent years we restructured the program to take place during a two year cycle to better serve emerging artists year a is for artists new to the program and year b is for returning artists with projects closer to production. In 2015 year b -- four resident artists/companies were selected for a second residency from a very competitive pool of more than twenty proposals. Selected artists were: andrea thome, paulina barros, new saloon, and stephanie hayes and emily reilly. 
