---
name: "Tisch Multiple Sclerosis Research Center of New York Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- politics
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- technology
- arts
ein: 251922851
homepage: "www.tischms.org"
address: |
 521 West 57th Street 4th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10019
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The purpose of tisch multiple sclerosis research center of ny, inc. Is to conduct medical research directed toward finding the cause and eventual cure of multiple sclerosis. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The purpose of tisch multiple sclerosis research center of ny, inc. Is to
  
  the tisch ms research center's mission is to conduct medical research directed toward finding the cause and eventual cure of multiple sclerosis. Some of the program accomplishments include the following: we have made advances in our stem cell research. In 2015 we completed 75% of the fda-approved phase i clinical trial testing stem cells in ms patients. Dr. Harris and dr. Sadiq published an invited editorial discussing future perspectives of stem cell research in ms. We have made advances in our biomarker research, and dr. Harris, dr. Mir, dr. Liu, and dr. Sadiq have all presented abstracts at the american academy of neurology conference in washington dc describing novel cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers. Additional advances were made in understanding mechanisms of disease progression and drs. Cristofanilli and sadiq have presented abstracts at the american academy of neurology conference describing immune activation in a novel experimental model of progressive ms. Also, mr. Lin and dr. Sadiq have presented an abstract at the american academy of neurology conference describing their investigation of the cause of ms. 
