---
name: "New York Math Circle Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
ein: 261162539
homepage: "nymathcircle.org"
address: |
 Old Chelsea Station PO Box 1992, \nNew York, NY 10113
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "See schedule o for complete mission statement. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

New york math circle (nymc) is a non-profit organization dedicated to enriching and supplementing mathematical education in new york city. Nymc offers interested students from around new york city an opportunity to grow intellectual and personally through the learning of mathematics and related subjects from exceptional teachers in a friendly, enriched atmosphere. It encourages and supports excellent teaching of mathematics through courses for teaches and other programs. Mathematics enrichment classes for high school and middle school students and teachers - during fye 6/30/15, new york math circle held an intensive summer program and 33 weekend courses for students: 5 in the summer, 13 in the fall semester, and 15 in the spring. A total of 760 high school and middle school students were served, about 308 classroom sessions held, and over 17,184 instructional student-hours were provided. The program aims to enrich and supplement mathematical education in new york city by providing students with superb instruction in a friendly atmosphere, and offering material not usually encountered in regular curriculum in our classes. We seek to stimulate the enjoyment, appreciation, and knowledge of mathematics through problem solving and guided discovery, to strengthen students existing knowledge, and to cultivate the motivation and capacity for future students. We strive to make the classes available to all interested students, regardless of the financial means. New york math circle also ran a semester long talk series for teachers, and held an intensive 2-day workshop in geometry that included teachers and students. The teacher program aims to support excellent teaching of mathematics in schools around new york city by providing mathematical content classes for teachers, taught by distinguished educators. 
