---
name: "The Playwrights Realm"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 261258354
homepage: "www.playwrightsrealm.org"
address: |
 520 Eighth Ave, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Devoted to supporting early career playwrights along the journey of playwrighting; helping them to hone their craft, and fully realize their vision & build meaningful artistic careers. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Devoted to supporting early career playwrights along the journey of playwrighting; helping them to hone their craft, and fully realize their vision & build meaningful artistic careers. Playwrights realm is devoted to supporting early career playwrights along the journey of playwriting, helping them hone their craft, fully realize their vision, and build meaningful artistic careers. We help writers write by providing a swath of services, ranging from the basics like office supplies to the biggest gift a playwright can receive: a production. We present two full productions each year, one free of charge public reading festival, one reading series,, and many internal readings and workshops. In fy15, we supported the work of 12 playwrights, and 4,107 people attended our programming. (1) the writing fellows residency develops both new plays and emerging writers by seeking four fresh, promising playwrights and nurturing them with space, time, feedback, and highly-produced readings in our ink'd festival. The residency helps these writers develop a new script from a draft form to a production ready state over the course of nine months, and it provides each writer with a toolkit for launching his or her career. The four readings in our ink'd festival were attended by 288 audience members. (2) the page one program includes a residency and a full production for one playwright each year. Our page one production runs for four weeks off-broadway with high-quality creative teams. The page one playwright, in his or her residency with the realm, also receives benefits such as a competitive stipend, health insurance, professional development and travel funds, theater tickets, and more. This year's page one production was my maana comes by elizabeth irwin, which was attended by 2,190 people at the peter jay sharp theater on 42nd street. (3) the alumni playwrights are past page one playwrights who participate in a monthly writers' group and receive public or private readings in our next edition festival our alumni playwrights residency expanded this year to include an off-broadway production dedicated to mounting new plays by our alumni playwrights. In fy15, our inaugural alumni production was city of by anton dudley, which was attended by 1,571 people also at the peter jay sharp theater. 
