---
name: "The Resolution Project Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- farm
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 264394051
homepage: "www.resolutionproject.org"
address: |
 1120 Ave of the Americas 4th Fl, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The mission of the resolution project is to develop socially-responsible young leaders and empower them to make a positive impact today. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of the resolution project is to develop socially-responsible young leaders and empower them to make a positive impact today. Founded in 2007, the resolution project identifies, equips, and empowers promising young social entrepreneurs with the support, skills, and seed funding they need to make a positive impact today. Our innovative program consists of: - forming close relationships with youth leadership conferences around the world; - hosting our social venture challenges (svcs) at those conferences; and - awarding resolution fellowships to those young entrepreneurs with the most promising venture proposals and compelling personal leadership characteristics. There are currently more than 220 resolution fellows, working on all six inhabited continents to implement innovative solutions to address important issues including education, access to water, sustainable agriculture, healthcare, technology, energy efficiency, womens empowerment and human rights, among others. In 2015, we hosted svcs in conjunction with seven host conferences, continuing our relationships with the clinton global initiative university, the youth assembly at the united nations, harvards igniting innovation summit, the harvard national model united nations conference, the harvard world model united nations conference, and semester at sea. We also welcomed new conference host, one young world. Our host relationships enable resolution to reach a growing audience of motivated undergraduate students, resulting in the continued expansion in the number of students engaging with our platform (increasing from approximately 120 students in 2012 to more than 990 students in 2015). With close to 200 resolution fellows working on 119 social ventures, we experienced a 38% growth in the size of our fellow community in 2015. These young leaders have the energy, creativity, and enthusiasm necessary to develop interesting business models and create significant and concrete change in their communities, their schools, and around the world. Our first five years of resolution fellows report having directly helped more than 775,000 people through their ventures, illustrating that innovative models and sustainable approaches generate significant value and impact. We continue to invest in the human and financial resources to sustainably scale this growth. We are pleased to report that our most recent impact evaluation data affirm significant increase in fellows' leadership, professional, and organizational skills. Fellows report that great satisfaction with the their guides (mentors) and the resolution staff and we remain committed to maintaining this high standard. Our pathway partnership program continued to expand in 2015, with the addition of the jefferson awards foundation, catapult ideas, and trustlaw-thomas reuters foundation to our community of partner organizations that provide opportunities for current fellows to progress along their pathway to action. This includes opportunities for later stage funding, additional mentorship, investment, etc. , to help grow fellows social ventures and their commitment to social good. We reach an ever-growing number of burgeoning entrepreneurs and provide them with the funding, advisory services, and resources they need to turn ideas into impact. 
