---
name: "Crisis Action Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- elderly
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- arts
ein: 264509207
homepage: "www.crisisaction.org"
address: |
 708 Third Ave, \nNew York, NY 10017
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To help avert conflicts, prevent human rights abuses and ensure that governments fulfill their obligations to protect civilians. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Crisis action works for and with organizations and individuals across civil society who act to protect civilians from armed conflict. We are a catalyst and convener of joint action, whose behind the scenes work enables coalitions to act quickly and effectively. As a coordinating body, we seek no public profile or media spotlight; it is the voice of the coalition that matters. We are an international organization whose only agenda is the protection of civilians. We are open about our objectives, welcoming scrutiny from anyone who wishes to understand who we are and what we do. Over the last year, crisis action has led global campaigns to end the conflicts in syria and south sudan, and led emergency response work in relation to israel and the occupied palestinian territory, nigeria and burundi. On syria: while the conflict raged on and indiscriminate attacks by all the parties to the conflict caused mounting civilian casualties, the rise of islamic state distracted international attention from the suffering of ordinary civilians. Crisis action worked with partners to increase humanitarian access, halt attacks and inspire renewed momentum for peace. We orchestrated a letter to un security council members from 37 eminent lawyers and coordinated a private briefing paper by our ngo partners on how to improve cross-border access. Combined with public campaigning, these efforts resulted in a landmark un resolution explicitly authorizing agencies to cross into syria without the government's consent. In july 2014, the first un-marked convoy crossed from turkey into syria. In response, the assad regime dramatically increased its indiscriminate aerial bombardment of civilian areas including hospitals, prompting us to partner with the syrian american medical society to bring syrian doctors, dentists and the white helmets (volunteer medical rescue teams) to meet senior policy makers in europe and the us. In their interviews with cnn, bbc, associated press and others, they were compelling and effective advocates for greater protection of civilians. Around the fourth anniversary of the conflict in march 2015, crisis action coordinated the withsyria coalition to launch the 'turn the lights back on' campaign centered on satellite images from researchers at china's wuhan university, which showed that 83% of lights had gone out across syria since 2011. The satellite images made headlines in more than 40 countries around the world and helped put pressure on world leaders to do more to protect civilians, mobilise aid and increase efforts to end the conflict. 70,000 people signed a petition urging world leaders to 'turn the lights back on' and prominent political figures including madeline albright and us senators chris coons and robert menendez voiced their support. Throughout the year, crisis action facilitated meetings for partners with senior officials at the united nations, us state department and other key capitals. On south sudan: as bitter conflict tore apart the world's youngest nation, and regional and international powers failed to mediate a ceasefire, crisis action worked with partners to expose the cost of war and support ordinary citizens to speak out, we commissioned the european economic consultancy, frontier economics, to produce an innovative and ground-breaking report that put a price tag on the economic and financial costs of continued conflict. Its staggering costing received exceptional levels of global media coverage and the report was privately praised by high-level policy makers in key capitals from washington dc to juba in south sudan. Its january 2015 launch in nairobi was followed by a launch in juba that was attended by most of the president's cabinet. This was followed by a high-level policy maker seminar in addis ababa ahead of the au summit to promote its comprehensive recommendations, and a series of public and private events in south africa during the summit to encourage south africa to take a leadership role and ensure there would be peace with justice for the people of south sudan. These events featured powerful south sudanese advocates who were able to speak directly to international leaders to suggest how they could compel the parties to return to the negotiating table and protect civilians. On israel and the occupied palestinian territory: when a sudden and devastating war broke out between israel and hamas in the summer of 2014, crisis action launched an emergency response calling for a ceasefire and the protection of civilians. We worked with former israeli military personnel in a series of powerful opinion pieces in prominent media outlets to challenge the official narrative that israel security forces were doing all they could to prevent civilian casualties. A ceasefire was agreed by the end of the summer, but gaza laid in ruins with little prospect of rebuilding. Crisis action turned its attention to preventing a return to conflict and worked with eminent international lawyers to make the case that both sides in the conflict should be held accountable for their violations of international law. They argued that palestine should be allowed to join the international criminal court because it would create incentives for peace on both sides and prevent aid money being wasted. Their opinion formed the basis for a longer policy brief that some of crisis action's human rights partners published just in time for an icc meeting in new york, which proved pivotal. Shortly afterwards palestine surprised may by deciding to accede to the rome statute and give the icc jurisdiction over the situation in the occupied palestinian territory. According to a source close to the palestinians, crisis action's work had 'helped create the environment and momentum' that made the this possible. On nigeria: as tensions heightened in the run-up to national elections, crisis action worked with prominent local voices in concert with nigerian and international ngos to underscore the candidates' responsibility to prevent violence. At the same time, as brutal attacks by boko haram continued in the north-east and spilled over into neighboring states, crisis action supported partners to advocate for a un mission that prioritized civilian protection. Following the peaceful change in government, we brought together more than 10 influential nigerian and west african human rights experts to urge to new government to support a un security council resolution backing west african forces against boko haram in a manner that protected civilians. We followed-up on these efforts by collaborating with former british army general sir nick parker on an opinion piece that was published in prominent nigerian media outlets. It welcomed the new president's public commitments to uphold human rights and urged the nigerian military to measure success of its counter-insurgency operations according to how effectively they protected civilians. On burundi: tens of thousands of people fled their homes when unrest around burundi's presidential elections threatened to spiral into a repeat of the country's recent bloody civil war. Crisis action worked with partners and influential voices in the region to encourage dialogue, de-escalate tensions and ensure the world was watching. Although the incumbent president nkurunziza was returned for a controversial third term, and the elections were neither free nor fair, they were not accompanied by widespread violence that was as was feared, in the immediate aftermath of the vote, the african union deployed human rights monitors and military observers, which had been among the key campaign asks of crisis action's partners concerned to halt a slide back to civil war or a return to ethnically-targeted violence. 
