---
name: "The GO Project Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 271411019
homepage: "www.goprojectnyc.org"
address: |
 50 Cooper Square 3rd Floor, \nNew York, NY 10003
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The go project shapes the futures of low-income new york city public school children by providing critical academic, social and emotional support starting in the early elementary years. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The go project shapes the futures of low-income new york city public school children by providing critical academic, social and emotional support starting in the early elementary years. Go provides year-round educational and family support services to children who are performing below grade level and equips them with the confidence and skills needed to succeed at school, at home and in life. Go results: 2014-2015academic outcomeson average, go students gain up to 2 months in reading math over the course of the 5-week summer program. Most low-income students risk losing up to 2 months during the summer. A 2015 third-party evaluation demonstrated that go students, on average, have higher gpas than their comparison peer group. Ela and math proficiency levels for iep students that have been in go for 2 years or more are higher than their peers, for both reading and math. 94% of students enroll in go school after completing go summer. 92% average student attendance rate during go summer 2014, compared to 75% for nyc doe summer school. Promotion and school matriculation outcomes go students are absent from school less frequently. On average, elementary students attend 12 more days than their peers and middle school students attend 10 more days. 92% of eighth grade students were accepted into one or more of their top three choices for high school in 2015. Go students are attending much higher caliber middle schools than the students in their comparison group. 99% of go students are promoted on time across all grades annually. Social and emotional outcomes 84% of students show evidence of improved relationships with peers. 95% of students receiving targeted support services show improvement in social and behavioral goals, such as managing anxiety, confidence-building, self-advocacy, and peer interaction. 83% of students demonstrate improved confidence and ability to listen in the classroom. 
