---
name: "New Workforce Directions Inc dba Madison Strategies Group"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 272323749
homepage: "www.madisonstrategies.org"
address: |
 1250 Broadway, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Madison strategies groups mission is to help individuals reach their full-potential and achieve economic mobility by developing and delivering innovative employment, education and financial empowerment strategies. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Madison strategies groups mission is to help individuals reach their full-potential and achieve economic mobility by developing and delivering innovative employment, education and financial empowerment strategies; providing technical assistance and sharing lessons learned from research and program implementation to drive systemic change. Madison strategies helps individuals reach their full-potential and achieve economic mobility by developing and delivering innovative employment, education and financial empowerment strategies. Madison strategies is a nonprofit organization established in 2011 to address gaps in the workforce development field and to deliver more effective employment services for job seekers and businesses. Transportation connections workadvance (tcw) prepares unemployed and low-income tulsans to work and advance in careers in the oklahomas power sectors of transportation, aerospace and manufacturing. Tcw provides advanced technical training and job placement services in the related fields and prepares tulsans for career advancement through career advising and career readiness training. The program is part of the white houses social innovation fund. In 2014, tcw placed 198 individuals into jobs and 78 individuals received a wage increase of 5% or more in wages. A total of 94 men and women began training in 2014. Career directions provides employment readiness training, job placement, retention and post-employment services, and advancement services to low-income and under-served individuals referred to us by partner organizations providing housing, food, healthcare and legal services. In 2014, the career directions enrolled close to 450 people and placed over 275 individuals into various industry sectors, including healthcare, social services, and transportation. The average wage for placements in 2014 was $13. 34 per hour. Our 90-day confirmed job retention rate was 70% and over 50% of individuals placed in 2013 confirmed they were working one year later. Career connections program works directly with individuals incarcerated at rikers island with the goal of finding full-time employment upon their release. Inmates are referred to the program and recruited to participate in a job readiness program through on-site orientation sessions held on rikers island. In 2014, a total of 127 men and women enrolled in the career connections and 51 individuals were placed in jobs in various sectors like accommodation and food service, transportation and retail and customer service. The average wage for placements in 2014 was $11. 54 per hour. 
