---
name: "TFL-US Incorporated"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- youth
- employment
- social
- funding
- arts
ein: 272370827
homepage: "N/A"
address: |
 14 East 4th Street, \nNew York, NY 10012
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Carry out fundraising activities in the u. S. And provide grants in support of improved local education in lebanon. Its goal is to eliminate educational inequality while fostering youth leadership and promoting civic engagement,particularly in rural lebanon. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Carry out fundraising activities in the u. S. And provide grants in support of improved local education in lebanon. Its goal is to eliminate educational inequality while fostering youth leadership and promoting civic engagement,particularly in rural lebanon. The goal of tfl-us was to raise about $400,000 in 2015 with the minimum amount of expenses possible. To that extent, members of the board contacted their friends to raise the larger donations, while a couple of events were also held in space (a persons office, a store, a gallery)lent for the evening by generous members of the lebanese-american community, at no cost to tfl-us. A couple of small get-togethers also allowed high potential donors to hear the vision and success to date of teach for lebanon from its ceo. These get-togethers were held in private homes and were typically fully or largely subsidized by the host. At the present time, tfl-us, incorporated operates mostly by word of mouth, through the efforts of its directors, and through social networking, to reach potential donors. Tfl-us, incorporated expanded its reach beyond new york, and beyond individuals to ngos, foundations and the us government. There are large and prosperous lebanese communities in major regions of the us such as new england, the midwest, the bay area in california, southern california, texas, florida, and north carolina. Tfl was granted $409,879 through the end of 2015 with about $309,000 expenses. 
