---
name: "America Achieves Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 273238471
homepage: "www.americaachieves.org"
address: |
 1460 Broadway 8th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "America achieves is a nonprofit organization dedicated to ensuring young people get the best possible education and preparation to lead and succeed in a changing world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

America achieves is a nonprofit organization dedicated to ensuring young people get the best possible education and preparation to lead and succeed in a changing world. Our nonprofit accelerator drives large-scale impact by identifying and supporting exceptional educators and other leaders with powerful insights about what will help prepare young people at large scale for success; supports the development of their strategies, coalitions and leadership teams; matches them with philanthropic funding and tailored strategic and operational support; and provides them with an active community of educators and other leaders from whom they can learn. Our first area of practice is our programming to accelerate k-12 educational excellence. In this program area, we support the establishment of learning communities involving highly engaged teachers, school leaders, and families who commit to deepen student learning, build character, and help students make use of their learning to solve real world problems -- while helping other educators, families and students learn and benefit from their work. This work is built on two important insights. First, economic and technological changes have created a much higher educational bar that students need to clear than ever before in order to succeed in careers and life. Second, educational changes too often are either top-down or fragmented, isolated efforts that focus more on fixing failure than spreading success -- and there hasn't been enough attention to creating and growing communities of educational excellence that educators, families, and students choose to lead and join. In this area of practice, america achieves runs programs for teachers, school leaders and families. For leaders of schools and school systems, we offer the global learning network (gln). The gln provides interested superintendents, principals, and their leadership teams with information on how their progress with students and schools compares to the best educational systems worldwide, access to best practices, and a learning community inspiring and equipping them to take action to make faster progress to ensure all students advance educationally. During the 2014 2015 school year, the global learning network grew the number of schools benefiting from school-level international benchmarking tools to 446 us based schools and nearly 800 globally. The gln helps educators understand their results and then identify and share needed practice shifts to improve outcomes. Over the last year, the gln launched and ran a series of regional meetings and virtual convenings that engaged educators across the country. Our goal over time is to make it possible for any community or school in the u. S. To benchmark their progress and practices compared with the best educational systems and schools in the world - and then use that information to make needed progress. For teachers and principals, we offer our fellowship for teachers and principals. This fellowship empowers outstanding educators to leverage their in-school expertise to shape public dialogue and public policy and also to inform the practices of other educators. As of august 2015, the fellowship grew to 476 teachers and principal fellows across the national fellowship program and state networks. In the last year these fellows engaged in more than 250 media features, 460 op-eds and blogs, 280 presentations, and 330 opportunities advising key leaders and stakeholders. Fellows also co-authored important reports such as to the test, an in-depth analysis of the updated new york state assessments and recommendations for improvement - and shared their expertise through social media campaigns such as #iwishmyteacherknew. Moreover, tens of thousands of teachers across the country have accessed the open-access case studies, videos and instructional practices created in partnership with these outstanding educators to help students reach rigorous academic standards. For parents and families, america achieves launched and runs the raise the bar program. Raise the bar inspires and supports a community of parents and families expecting more for their children's education. Raise the bar offers tools and resources for parents to help understand educational standards and their children's progress while also equipping parents with information on how to help their child succeed in school. Raise the bar has worked with parents across the country to develop online resources specifically designed to help parents understand changes in the classroom and support their children's success in school. These resources included educational check-ups for children in grades 2-8 in english language arts and math, a learning habits/character growth self-assessment, tools to help parents communicate with their children's teachers, and enhanced content added in june 2015 to support parents understanding and modeling how to build a 'growth mindset' in their children. In the summer of 2015, raise the bar began a partnership with learning heroes, a project of new venture fund, to promote raise the bar material through bealearninghero. Org and execute the learning heroes back-to-school informational campaign. The campaign was intended as a comprehensive outreach effort to help parents understand how to help their children improve educationally and reach college and career-ready educational standards - with the goal of reaching 3 million parents nationwide. Our second area of practice at america achieves is our college access and success work - focusing on how to help many more low and moderate income youth enroll in and complete college. Our college access and success initiative established and quarterbacks the college point coalition to address one important goal: by 2020, getting the majority of high-achieving, low- and moderate-income high school students to enroll in one of the top 270 colleges (defined as those with the best completion rates) in the u. S. Currently 2/3 of students at these colleges come from the wealthiest quarter of families - and 1/3 come from the other three quarters combined. Only 6 percent of students at these top colleges come from our lowest-income families - despite the fact that there are three times as many low-income students who are objectively qualified to attend these colleges. And yet the majority of these students don't even apply to a selective college that matches their talent and track record. That's why our initiative and coalition is piloting and evaluating an innovative college advising program that is identifying, mentoring and supporting these students through the college application and matriculation process. During the 2014-2015 academic year, collegepoint piloted this program with three partner organizations to serve more than 1,300 high school students -- and helped over 1,000 of these students to enroll in a top college. We expect this program to grow and serve tens of thousands of students in the coming few years. Our third area of focus is investing in what works and driving evidence-based policy making to address this challenge. Results for america (rfa) is an america achieves initiative based on an important idea: in this age of scarce resources and significant challenges, millions of young people and their families will be better positioned to succeed if government funding supports programs that are based on good evidence and demonstrate that they are effective over time. That's why results for america supports efforts to make public funding more evidence-based and supports a coalition of public officials and others working on this problem. For example, rfa worked with leading experts and practitioners to establish a standard of excellence through its federal invest in what works index for federal departments and agencies that defines the infrastructure necessary for building and using data and evidence when making budget, policy and management decisions -- and supports federal departments and agencies to implement specific changes. In november 2014, rfa released a national best-selling moneyball for government book authored by a bipartisan group of nationally-recognized experts to help ensure that budget, policy, and management decisions by governments at all levels are informed by the best possible data and evidence about what works (a second edition has since been released). Rfa also manages a national initiative to help 100 mid-size u. S. Cities enhance their use of data and evidence to improve the lives of their residents. 
