---
name: "Defy Ventures Inc"
tags:
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 273611908
homepage: "www.defyventures.org"
address: |
 5 Penn Plaza 19th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide carefully selected, ambitious individuals who have criminal histories with transformational entrepreneurship, leadership, character development and career opportunities. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To provide carefully selected, ambitious individuals who have criminal histories with transformational entrepreneurship, leadership, character development and career opportunities. Defy seeks to break the cycle of incarceration by equipping individuals-who because of their criminal histories are at a severe disadvantage in the employment market-to attain sustainable and legal financial stability. We're proud of defys results and are excited to show supporters the results of their investment of time and funding. Since the launch of our program in january 2012, defy has:served 281 entrepreneurs in training (eits) in four teams. Eits receive 200+ hours of blended online training over a 15-month program from resident experts and our volunteer faculty, and complete an additional 200+ hours of training in the field working on their start-ups. Eits compete in up to four business pitch competitions, receive executive mentoring, and engage in intensive personal development. Launched 75 businesses. All businesses are legally incorporated and receive seed funding. Nearly 100% generate revenue in their first six weeks. Achieved an employment rate of 94%. Our program participants reported an 83% income increase. Engaged 3,000+ executive volunteers from hedge funds, investment banks, venture capital and private equity firms, fortune 500 companies, and entrepreneurial ventures. Volunteers contributed over 12,000 hours as business pitch competition judges, mentors and resume coaches. Recorded a recidivism rate of just 3%. Fully transitioned to a blended online training program a core component of our national scaling plan - that equips people with criminal histories with employment, entrepreneurship, and life skills. Resume coaches, mentors, business plan advisors, and competition judges also receive online training. Raised over $5 million in private funding since inception (2010). Been showcased in national media including in richard bransons blog, the new york times, inc. Magazine, the new yorker, christian science monitor, the harvard business review, the wall street journal, the huffington post, forbes. Com, the chicago tribune, and foxnews. Com. 
