---
name: "The Future Project Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- employment
- sports
- social
- military
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 274374555
homepage: "http://www.thefutureproject.org/"
address: |
 636 Broadway 704, \nNew York, NY 10012
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The future project's mission is to inspire young people to begin building the life and world of their dreams, and never stop. We focus on those students who would not otherwise have the opportunity or support to realize their greatness and share it with the world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The future project's mission is to inspire young people to begin building the life and world of their dreams, and never stop. We focus on those students who would not otherwise have the opportunity or support to realize their greatness and share it with the world. We work toward this mission by partnering with schools across america to transform them into places where students grasp what makes them extraordinaryand act on their newfound ability to change the world. 1. National expansion the future project has improved its dream director program and expanded it into seven cities across the nation, reaching nearly fifty schools. Dream directorsfull-time social entrepreneurs working within schools to empower students with the mindsets and skillsets necessary to identify and pursue their passionspartner closely with principals and districts to shift the experience of school, ensuring that it feels like a place where truly anything is possible, even as they work with individual students. This national expansionwhich has progressed across new york, detroit, san francisco, newark, new haven, philadelphia, and washington, d. C. Has resulted in the completion of over 1,000 future projects and over 150,000 hours of engagement in our material by students across the country. 2. Dreamconnearly 800 students descended upon new york city for our second-annual dreamers convention, which we commonly refer to as dreamcon. These students were members of their respective schools dream teams: groups of 12-20 students who take on the mantle of the future project early in the school year, learning how to build successful passion-based projects with the help of their peers. Eventually, these dream teams become deputy dream directors in their own right, learning how to train other young people in the future projects methodology and inspire them to pursue projects of their own. At dreamcon, this national community of dreamers pitched the first iterations of their projects to panels of subject-matter experts. Each student received individualized feedback about how to take their project to the next level, and each student was connected with an advisor who could work with them personally to advance that project and make it better. Then, students were led through workshops with dream directorsworkshops pertaining to common issues students faced in moving their projects forward. Most importantly, however, students were able to connect with one another, forming a national network of support and sharing. 3. Futureuthe future project pored through three years of data and experience to solidify futureu, its year-long curriculum for personal empowerment. Futureu codified the habits and practices of dream directors into a specific methodology embodied by the terms i want, i can, i willa methodology centered on discovering a passion or purpose; believing it is possible to pursue that purpose; and taking intentional action to advance that purpose in the form of a well-designed project. Futureu courses were offered at every future project school, and collected together into guides and workbooks for students to pursue both on their own and in partnership with their dream director. 
