---
name: "CHILDREN'S ARTS GUILD"
tags:
- education
- youth
- religious
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- arts
ein: 274597575
homepage: "www.childrensartsguild.org"
address: |
 550J Grand Street, 11F\nNew York, NY 10002
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The mission of children's arts guild is to support children in becoming emotionally intelligent, socially engaged, and productive citizens of the world through thoughtful art programs that build emotional competence, confidence, and social skills"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of the children's arts guild is to support children in becoming emotionally intelligent, socially engaged, and productive citizens of the world through thoughtful art programs that build emotional competence, confidence, and social skills. In the winter of 2014, we continued to expand our boys' arts express after-school program at the hub we had established at the earth school, a public elementary school in the east village community of lower manhattan, new york. In addition to serving the earth school community, we began to pick up students from four neighboring public schools. Fifty three boys from pre-k through sixth grade participated between one and three days a week. (the group included four recent earth school alums who now participated as apprentice facilitators. ) during the 20-week program cycle, boys participated in a total of 5,000 program hours. To continue in the program. ) we also implemented the program at grace church school, an independent school in manhattan, where 14 boys from junior-k through 2nd grade participated. In the fall of 2014, at the urging of the earth school community, we expanded boys' arts express to a full five days a week, with the option for boys to participate from one to five days. Fifty-one boys, who attend pre-k to 7th grade at six east village schools, participated in 9,000 program hours. 
