---
name: "Relay Graduate School of Education"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 275316628
homepage: "www.relay.edu"
address: |
 40 W 20th Street 7th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10011
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "See schedule o"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The organization's mission is to teach teachers to develop in all students the academic skills and strength of character needed to succeed in college and life. It aims to play an instrumental role in addressing the urgent need to prepare effective teachers focused on impacting student growth, with an emphasis on preparing teachers who aim to close the achievement gap in urban and/or low-income communities. To that end, the organization operates a graduate school with innovative programs that lead toward teacher certification and/or a master's degree. Specifically, the organization works to enhance curriculum, learning tools, faculty recruitment and training, assessment, technology used in education, research, teacher recruitment methods and other materials and processes required to train, recruit and retain great teachers. To further support its mission, the organization has developed and launched a training program for both current and aspiring school leaders (i. E. Principals) in orde
  
  relay graduate school of education ('relay') was organized under the education law of the state of new york in february 2011, to improve the training and preparation of teachers. The organization received its public charity determination from the internal revenue service in september 2011. Relay commenced operations in july 2011, at which point the programs previously operated by uncommon knowledge and achievement, inc. ('uka'), a related not-for-profit organization, were transferred to relay. Uka supports relay and its development and delivery of teacher and school leader training programs. In july 2011, relay graduate school of education opened its doors to an inaugural class of graduate students. In the 2011-2012 and 2012-2013 academic years, relay offered two programs, a master of arts in teaching graduate degree program in new york, ny, and a teacher certification program in newark, nj. By the 2014-2015 academic year, relay offered master of arts in teaching graduate degrees in new york, ny, newark, nj, new orleans, la, chicago, il, and houston, tx, a master of education in instructional school leadership graduate degree in new york, ny, and a national instructional school leadership program. Since launching in 2011, over 1,400 teachers and school leaders have completed relay's teacher and school leader training programs. In april 2012, relay was approved by the u. S. Department of education as a title iv eligible institution, allowing it to offer title iv federal student aid programs to its students starting in the 2012-2013 academic year. 
