---
name: "iMentor Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- youth
- religious
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 300105507
homepage: "www.imentor.org"
address: |
 30 Broad Street 9th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10004
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Imentor builds mentoring relationships that empower students in low-income communities to graduate high school, succeed in college, and achieve their ambitions. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Imentor builds mentoring relationships that empower students in low-income communities to graduate high school, succeed in college, and achieve their ambitions. Students work with their mentors one-on-one, in-person, and online to develop strong personal relationships, nurture a college aspiration, navigate the college application process, and build critical skills that lead to college success. Imentor partners with public schools to ensure every student in the school receives a mentor. Imentor also provides its curriculum, technology, and best practices to nonprofits nationwide to help them run effective programs in the imentor model. Since 1999, imentor has connected with approximately 15,000 students with mentors. Imentor nyc is imentors direct service program. In the 2014-2015 program year, imentor served over 3,183 students through partnerships with 16 high schools throughout new york city. The program began in 1999 serving 49 students in 1 high school in the bronx. By 2018, our goal is to serve 4,000 students annually. Imentor partners with public high schools in new york city that serve low-income students and we match every student in the school with a college-educated mentor. Our mentors commit 3-4 years to a single mentee and after these initial commitments, all pairs have the option to continue their match through college completion. We provide pairs with the curriculum, resources, and support from certified college counselors to ensure that they achieve 4 core outcomes: (1) develop a strong personal relationship; (2) develop a college aspiration that is idiosyncratic to each students hopes for the future; (3) develop the non-academic skills that research shows are critical for college success; and (4) effectively navigate the post-secondary process. By helping students achieve these outcomes each year, imentor has ensured more low-income students graduate high school and create pathways to college completion. 
