---
name: "Orphaned Starfish Foundation Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 311782130
homepage: "www.orphanedstarfish.org"
address: |
 55 Exchange Place, \nNew York, NY 10005
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The orphaned starfish foundation creates lasting change in the lives of orphans throughout latin america by helping them develop vocational skills. We believe enabling them with these skills allows them to permanently overcome the cycle of poverty and abuse. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The orphaned starfish foundation creates lasting change in the lives of orphans throughout latin america by helping them develop vocational skills. We believe enabling them with these skills allows them to permanently overcome the cycle of poverty and abuse. Training facilities in colombia. Fundamor, cali, colombia - founded in 1992, fundamor is an ngo based in cali colombia that provides housing, nutrition, comprehensive health care, and education to children living with hiv/aids. The organization serves approximately 60 children ranging from newborns to eighteen years of age. In addition, fundamor works to increase public awareness of the risks of hiv and aids in the community. The foundation is partially funded by the colombian family welfare institute. The world is in your hands, choco, colombia - the world is in your hands provides assistance to women who are vulnerable due to displacement, violence, and abandonment. The program allows them to be productive for themselves, their families, and society. The program started in the municipality of pretoria, in choco, for a population of 15 children, aged between 6 and 11 years. Their aim is to offer mothers who are the head in the home, the opportunity to attain computer training- thus open up both educational and economic spaces, which require the use of the internet, as well as the ability to show them that the world is in their hands. Casa hogar de la chinca house, medellin, colombia - casa hogar de la chinca house, located in medellin, colombia, is a nonprofit organization that provides for approximately 60 female adolescents who have been physically and/or emotionally abused. These young women all come from dysfunctional family environments and have little or no access to higher education or job training. La chinca provides a safe living environment where the girls are provided educational assistance, food and clothing, social and ethical training, and psychological and social support. Senderos de paz, medellin, colombia - senderos de paz is a home designed for children ranging from ages 3 to 10, who are among the vulnerable social strata of the village of san cristobal belonging to the tumultuous climate-city of medellin. Senderos de paz provides education, food, and entertainment to more than 60 children who later come out with the basis of nutritional values and education to continue with their training in different institutions of the municipality. 
