---
name: "Joshua Venture Philanthropies Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- arts
ein: 331072448
homepage: "www.joshuaventuregroup.org"
address: |
 25 Broadway, \nNew York, NY 10004
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To reinvigorate and expand the jewish community by cultivating the leadership and management capability of talented passionate young jewish social entrepreneurs and investing in their visions and the growth of healthy, sustainable organizations. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To reinvigorate and expand the jewish community by cultivating the leadership and management capability of talented passionate young jewish social entrepreneurs and investing in their visions and the growth of healthy, sustainable organizations. Accomplishments of the dual investment program joshua venture group (jvg) invites the next generation of jewish social entrepreneurs to the communal table to achieve their visions for social impact. Through our intensive two-year dual investment program, these emerging leaders gain the skills, resources, and exposure to enable them to grow and sustain their ventures, as well as to complement the existing mainstream jewish infrastructure. The dual investment program provides fellows with the following resources:early-stage capital: each fellow receives $40,000/year for two years to start up or scale their venture. A social entrepreneur toolkit: individual coaching and semi-annual retreats help fellows obtain the skills necessary to build sustainability and scalability. This includes additional $14,000 in stipends over the 2 years. Access to professional and communal networks: affiliation with joshua venture group and its community will connect fellows with key players in the social entrepreneurial and jewish worlds. Increased exposure of their ventures: recognition as a fellow confers legitimacy upon emerging leaders and their ventures, as well as provides a vehicle through which to amplify their work. In 2015, joshua venture groups 2014-2016 six dual investment program fellows entered their second year of growth and development. Jvg also provides resources for alumni of our program and other entrepreneurial leaders, particularly through our collaboratory gathering a convening of 140 innovative emerging leaders for professional and network development. Through our constituents efforts in social and environmental justice, community building, spirituality, education and the arts, they are leading a vibrant regeneration of our cultural and religious heritage. 
