---
name: "The New York Opportunity Network Inc DBA The Opportunity Network"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 431984494
homepage: "www.opportunitynetwork.org"
address: |
 85 Broad Street 6th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10004
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The opportunity network equals the playing field for low-income high school students through intensive programming focused on career development, internship success, professional networks, college guidance and support through to college graduation. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The opportunity network equals the playing field for low-income high school students through intensive programming focused on career development, internship success, professional networks, college guidance and support through to college graduation. During our 2014-2015 school year, we served almost 700 students in our core programs and more than 1,500 through our partnerships with organizations and high schools. Our founding fellows program is an intensive six-year program that works with nyc students from the summer after 10th grade through to college graduation. Our median annual family income is $25,000, and 88% of our students will be first in their families to graduate from college. 100% of eligible students were placed into meaningful summer experiences at a wide range of institutions, including financial services firms, advertising and pr agencies, stem programs, healthcare organizations and research centers, arts and culture organizations, fashion houses, government entities and non-profit organizations, and they also participated in summer study abroad programs and coursework on college campuses. 98% of oppnet 12th graders matriculated at four-year colleges with sufficient financial aid to cover demonstrated need. 55% of oppnet 12th graders matriculated at colleges they had not heard of before oppnet, including cornell, dartmouth, mit, skidmore, vassar, wesleyan and williams, etc. 91% of our class of 2015 graduated college on-time this spring. 90% of oppnet class of 2015 college graduates secured a career-track job or admission to graduate school within six months of college graduation. 
