---
name: "Young Judaea Global Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 452640858
homepage: "www.youngjudaea.org"
address: |
 575 Eighth Avenue 11th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10018
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Young judaea is a zionist youth movement that embraces the diversity of the jewish people. We inspire jews to connect with their jewish identity and to the jewish people - past, present and future. We are committed to supporting the centrality of israel in jewish life. We empower our participants to imagine and bring about positive change in israel and the world at large. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Young judaea is a zionist youth movement that embraces the diversity of the jewish people. We inspire jews to connect with their jewish identity and to the jewish people - past, present and future. We are committed to supporting the centrality of israel in jewish life. We empower our participants to imagine and bring about positive change in israel and the world at large. Programs in israel: in addition to being a recognized birthright israel operator, young judaea offers the following long-term and medium-term programs in israel:* young judaea year course is the largest gap year program in israel, involving hundreds of high school graduates from the united states, canada, the united kingdom, and israel each year. During nine months in israel, participants study university-level jewish and israel-oriented topics, learn hebrew, live and volunteer in different types of israeli communities, and explore the country through hiking and educational seminars. * machon is young judaeas teen summer program in israel. A month-long program for entering 12th graders, machon follows the natural progression of a young judaean from their regional summer camp to tel yehudah, young judaeas teen leadership camp. As well as exploring the major sites and hidden gems of israel, machon enhances leadership skills while creating lifelong memories. With the help of an experienced, dedicated staff, participants gain an understanding and appreciation of israel. After they return home, machon alumni stay actively involved in young judaea and their community, and many of them continue their relationship with israel on year course. * discovery is a teen summer travel program to israel for young people who have not previously been involved in young judaea. The program begins with a few days in greece visiting world-famous sites before the group heads to israel for the month. Discovery participants tour, hike, explore, discover, and make new friends; they also begin to look deeper into their jewish identity and their connection to israel. The group is made up of entering 10th-12th graders from all over the us; they are joined by israeli peers for part of the summer. * i speak israel is an advocacy and activism summer program for teens, nurturing a true love for the jewish state, a sense of collective responsibility for the future of the jewish people, and a deep understanding of what israel is really about. Participants get to know the modern-day miracle of israel and how it contributes to making the world a better place. In the process, they meet inspiring people and make friends who share their love and passion for israel. They develop skills to become israel advocates, including public speaking and leadership skills. * amirim, for ages 18-26, is particularly suited for alumni of birthright and similar programs. Participants work as interns with businesses in fields such as marketing, medical and biomedical research, journalism, green energy, environment, and others, or volunteer with nonprofits dealing with children, human rights, special needs, animal welfare, refugees, and many other issues. Participants live in apartments in tel aviv, bat yam, or jerusalem for 4-8 weeks. The program blends structure and freedom to explore israel and includes a rich itinerary of day and overnight tours relating to judaism, israel, and the middle east. * wujs israel is a 5-month post-college customized internship and art program located in jerusalem, tel aviv, or haifa. Participants choose from a professional internship or an arts track. Interns work four days a week in a field of their choice in almost any industry in the public, private, or nonprofit sectors. Young judaeas professional staff provides support to maximize participants potential in israel. Art track participants intern twice a week in a chosen field, and spend two days a week creating their own artwork to be presented at the end of the program in a special public exhibition. Participants in both tracks live in apartments in centrally located neighborhoods and also have the option to study hebrew. Year-round activities:through young judaea's year-round informal education activities, young people apply the values they have learned in young judaea summer camp and israel programs to their day-today lives, their community, and the communities of others. Year-round programs become entry points into jewish involvement and a pipeline into increasing participation in the national and international young judaea community. They also provide opportunities for teens to develop leadership skills by planning and executing activities for their peers and for younger judaeans as well. Year-round programs include national and local teen leadership groups, young judaea's national teen convention and regional conventions, the alternative winter break social action initiative, and local activities in communities around the us. 
