---
name: "Streetwise and Safe Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- politics
- gender
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- advocacy
- arts
ein: 452866644
homepage: "streetwiseandsafe.org"
address: |
 147 West 24th Street 4th Floor, \nNew York, NY 10011
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Sas builds leadership among lgbtq youth of color who experience profiling and discriminatory policing so they can speak out on their own behalf to collectively advance their rights and to demand social change. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Sas builds leadership among lgbtq youth of color who experience profiling and discriminatory policing so they can speak out on their own behalf to collectively advance their rights and to demand social change. Youth program/know your rights:sas launched the spring 15-week leadership and know your rights program and invited 10 new young people to participate and 5 graduates become sas youth leaders. Through the program, youth leaders learned and shared 'know your rights' information with peers. Further, sas hosted a pride know your rights forum to discuss specific challenges lgbtq folks face when encountering the police where community members attended. Our youth leadership program also outreached and collected over 300 pledges of support across new york city. Our youth leaders participated in trans day of action where sas spoke out against profiling, harassment and brutality at the hands of the police department. State and local policy advocacy: sas was involved in efforts to secure the passage of the community safety act, which is landmark legislation aiming to end discriminatory policing in new york city. Sas also worked to end police and prosecutors from using possession of condoms as evidence of intent to engage in prostitution-related offenses at the new york city level. Lastly, sas advocated for effective implementation with respect to the changes to the nypd patrol guide concerning treatment of transgender new yorkers. In 2015, sas is releasing a youth-created outreach tool to share with peers related to the patrol guide. National/movement building:sas partnered with the center for gender & sexuality law at columbia law school, and the center for american progress to develop a roadmap for change: federal policy recommendations for addressing the criminalization of lgbt people and people with hiv. This report is the first comprehensive set of federal policy recommendations to address cycles of criminalization and discriminatory treatment faced by lgbt people and plwh (people living with hiv). Sas in partnership with breakout! co-launched get yr rights! a national lgbt youth know your rights network. The network aims to resource and build the capacity of lgbtq youth and lgbtq youth serving organizations to begin, or deepen their efforts to share know your rights information with lgbtq youth and to engage in campaigns to reduce the harms of interactions with police. Currently, there are over 30 diverse network members who range from grassroots organizers to service providers, organizations that develop leaders and organizations that engage in policy advocacy work. 
