---
name: "KYLE ABRAHAMABRAHAM IN MOTION INC"
tags:
ein: 452929138
homepage: "www.abrahaminmotion.org"
address: |
 c/o NY Live Arts 219 W 19th St, \nNew York, NY 10011
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To create an evocative body of work that investigates the complex interrelation of personal identity and community, particularly among those largely under served by contemporary dance. Kyle abraham/abraham in motion, inc. Cultivates impassioned dialogue not only through the singular artistic work the company produces, but also through inventive community programs that includes workshops, school performances, community discussions, and ongoing dialogues. At the heart of this work is a deeply held, organization-wide commitment to community that is manifest in every artistic work an activity of the company-programmatic, administrative, artistic, and educational. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To create an evocative body of work that investigates the complex interrelation of personal identity and community, particularly among those largely under served by contemporary dance. Kyle abraham/abraham in motion, inc. Cultivates impassioned dialogue not only through the singular artistic work the company produces, but also through inventive community programs that includes workshops, school performances, community discussions, and ongoing dialogues. At the heart of this work is a deeply held, organization-wide commitment to community that is manifest in every artistic work an activity of the company-programmatic, administrative, artistic, and educational. In 2015, kyle abraham/abraham. In. Motion performed the works: the quiet dance/absent matter/the gettin at the joyce theater in nyc (7 performances) and toured dance works to more than a dozen cities nationally and internationally giving a total of close to 50 performances. On each tour, the company offered a multitude of engagement activities, ranging from technique classes to creative workshops to post-performance discussions:technique classesclasses taught by a. I. M emphasize four specific core values: exploration, musicality, abandonment, and intuition. The opening warm-up sequence focuses on the fluidity of the spine, articulation, and core body strengthening and then builds up to challenging, creative and invigorating phrase work. Students experience a personalized postmodern movement vocabulary full of intricate gestures and fearless floor work. Lecture demonstrationa. I. Ms lecture demonstrations are hands on, active, informative and most of all fun. Company members demonstrate the explorative creative process of our current repertory by sharing intricacies and foundation of our movement vocabulary and it's end result. Creative dance creation workshopa. I. M creative dance creation workshop is a guided process that allows students to create work within an encouraging, secure, and motivational environment. In the workshop participants will develop material in class, and will receive feedback from the company. Dance as identity ownershipdance as identity ownership is a new initiative from a. I. M and an important work. The focus of this workshop is to present students/dancers with an opportunity to use dance as a platform for generating and exploring dialogue and movement dialogue about gender and sexuality. Conversations sway between the social and political, stereotypical and biased, and that which is private and present. Humanities, literature, media, film and history, cultural theory, visual art and philosophy all play a role in our discourse and the most compelling project is considering these culturally identifying relationships with movement. This workshop is first and foremost safe and educational. It goes without saying that a vow of confidentiality must be understood and taken seriously. Meals and motionmeet and greet with a. I. M, where community members can experience a live excerpt from the work, then join in conversation with the company and each other about their neighborhood. Through relaxed conversation, flexible instigations, direct questions and personal talks, guests will enjoy food and beverage with kyle abraham and a. I. M. Dancers and delve into ideas, issues, proposals inherent in the work and its impact on the personal and local community. These conversations can happen in a multitude of unique spaces (including churches, high schools, community centers, etc). The morning afterthe morning after is an informal brunch with aim held the morning after thecompany's final performance at each venue. This brunch allows for an opportunity for audiences to talk with the company on a more one-on-one basis and for the company to engage in a more personalized discussion on the work and activities throughout the performance week. Unifying uniquenessin unifying uniqueness, participants of all levels learn phrases of material fromrepertory as a means to delve into the ways aim generates and develops movement. Moreover, participants engage in a dialogue centered around their earliest memories related to perception, family and freedom. Part conversation and part workshop, together the class will investigate the ideologies surrounding our own uniqueness and likenesses. Improvisation and statements of freedom in jazz and movementcreated in collaboration with blue note recording artist, otis brown iii, abraham andbrown conduct a workshop for movers and non-movers alike as an entry intocollaboration. This collaborative workshop includes an explorative conversation and movement investigation centered around ideas of freedom and social change. Additionally in 2015, aim implemented its groundbreaking dancer development program as an innovative solution to meet the challenges faced by dancers. Ddp engaged company dancers in part-time administrative roles across all functions, helping them to develop crucial skills outside of the realm of performance. Ddp dancers receive mentoring from administrative staff while building skills and fully engaging in every aspect of the company. Aim also continued its growing internship program, which offers students and recent college graduates hands on learning opportunities, both administrative and artistic. Aim began a monthly class series at gibney dance in new york city, providing nyc dancers the opportunity to engage with the companys artists and creative philosophy on a regular basis. In addition to an active regular touring season throughout 2015, the company conducted freedom and identity-based workshops in selma and birmingham, al and childrens performances at new york citys new victory theater. 
