---
name: "Volcker Alliance Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- elderly
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 454585989
homepage: "www.volckeralliance.org"
address: |
 560 Lexington Ave, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To address the challenge of effective execution of public policies and to rebuild public trust in government. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To address the challenge of effective execution of public policies and to rebuild public trust in government; to catalyze new thinking with respect to governance, and encourage efforts of interested institutions to provide relevant education and training for public service. The volcker alliance pursues a three-pronged programmatic strategy: problem-solving projects, ongoing programs, and change-driving networks. Our progress in each of those areas is described in greater detail below. The three largest program service areas in 2014, as measured by expenses, were our problem-solving projects on financial regulatory reform and truth in state budgeting, and our ongoing program focusing on performance, impact, and innovation. Problem-solving projects the alliance encourages reform and improved practices to address specific systemic or structure problems that impede progress on governmental policy goals. The alliance's first two major problem-solving projects address structural reform of the federal financial regulatory system and truth and integrity in state budgeting. Financial regulatory reform. In 2014, the alliance conducted a comprehensive study and drafted a report and recommendations for release in 2015. The report spans oversight and surveillance, supervision and regulation, and market integrity and investor protection. The alliance makes the case that a thoughtfully reconfigured regulatory system is a necessary step toward effective regulation and the long-term stability of the financial system. To gain momentum for the project as well as to seek input from various stakeholders, the alliance conducted several colloquia, held meetings with key stakeholders, and sponsored a public event focused on the project. The panelists agreed for the most part that the current regulatory structure was flawed, each panelist offered a different perspective on possible solutions for reform. The recommendations to be contained in the report required significant study and analysis. In developing the analytical foundation for the recommendations, the volcker alliance: conducted the most comprehensive study to date of historic proposals to restructure the regulatory framework, spanning more than 100 years of such reform efforts; evaluated the strengths and weaknesses of the regulatory structures of key foreign jurisdictions, including australia, canada, france, germany, japan and the united kingdom; assessed the flaws in the current structure of regulation of banking, insurance, securities, derivatives, and shadow banking; conducted discussions with former and current regulators, academics, trade associations, consumer advocacy groups, financial institutions, and members of congress; held various informal colloquia and public programs on issues of relevance to regulatory restructuring; and analyzed existing works, including studies, white papers, treatises, memoirs, and other research memoranda from a wide range of sources, including the treasury department, the federal reserve board, the financial crisis inquiry commission, the government accountability office, the international monetary fund, the financial stability board, and academic institutions and not-for-profit organizations. Truth and integrity in state budgeting. The alliance's state and local program is conducting an initial study, to release in june 2015, of the state budgets of california, new jersey, and virginia. Removing barriers to federal hiring. A third problem-solving project, removing barriers to federal hiring, was undertaken as a precursor to the alliance's larger effort to strengthen public service and, particularly, the graduates schools preparing people for public service. The alliance worked with the partnership for public service and the robertson foundation for government to release a toolkit clarifying widespread misperceptions about federal internships and recent graduate hiring. Ongoing programs in 2014, the alliance conducted research and began exploratory projects to formulate long-term strategies for these program areas. In the first area, the alliance is examining what and how to deliver education for great public service, align research to advance the quality of practice, and remove barriers that make it hard for the young and most talented to enter government service. In the second, the alliance documented best practices in massachusetts and maryland, and partnered on a 'moneyball for government' event with results for america and the brookings institution. The event featured a roundtable discussion about two 'investing in what works' papers sponsored by the alliance, one on education and one on head start. Both papers take the crucial and long overdue step of urging program evaluators to ask not just what works but, equally important, what works better. Change-driving networks the alliance is creating and energizing networks of change agents to increase attention and action to improve the administrative excellence of government. In 2014, the alliance funded a project led by the professional development league, a non-profit affiliate of the senior executives association, to establish and maintain an advisory network of the highly accomplished career federal executives who have been awarded the coveted presidential rank award of distinguished executive. This distinguished executives advisory network will provide researchers and policy-makers with a network of experienced, respected senior federal government officials willing to serve as a sounding board for proposed management reforms and be surveyed about public management issues, such as research and education needs. 
