---
name: "AMERICAN Friends OF BAR-ILAN UNIVERSITY INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- family
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 464198975
homepage: "www.AFBIU.org"
address: |
 160 East 56th Street, \nNew York, NY 10022
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The american friends of bar-ilan's primary exempt mission is to fundraise and develop philanthropic donors within the u. S. To support bar-ilan university in israel. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The american friends of bar-ilan university (afbiu) develops philanthropic support for bar-ilan university (biu) in israel. The american friends of bar-ilan university (afbiu) develops philanthropic support for bar-ilan university (biu) in israel. Afbiu seeks contributions at all levels of giving from individuals, families, foundations and businesses who embrace the university's mission-unique among israeli universities-to provide students with high-level educational experiences in an academic environment infused with jewish values and a love of the state of israel. Historically, the american friends of bar-ilan has operated as a fundraising division within bar-ilan university, serving to broaden the university's donor base in the united states and cultivate a sustained stream of funding. For nearly 60 years, afbiu has been a vital partner in support of the university's mission to create a core curriculum that provides a diverse group of students with a common basic understanding of their jewish heritage, history and culture, as well as of the zionist values which underpin the state of israel. Today, afbiu has developed its own identity separate from its parent organization, biu. Afbiu has obtained its own section 501(c)(3) tax exemption from the internal revenue service and is operating independently from biu. Afbiu represents the university's interests in the united states; our funding of academic projects, facilities, returning scientists and scholarships through annual contributions and planned gifts are laying a foundation of support that will sustain the university for generations to come. 
