---
name: "Citizens Committee for New York City Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 510171818
homepage: "www.citizensnyc.org"
address: |
 77 Water Street, \nNew York, NY 10005
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To help new yorkers - especially those in low-income areas - come together and improve the quality of life in their neighborhoods. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To help new yorkers - especially those in low-income areas - come together and improve the quality of life in their neighborhoods. We are so grateful for the generous support of our donors, which in 2015 helped us award micro-grants to 325 neighborhood projects. We mobilized an estimated 7,340 volunteers in virtually every corner of the city and work in 108 different neighborhoods. We also conducted 33 skills-building workships for 546 social entrepreneurs. Citizens committee was founded by senator jacob javits and 'newsweek' editor-in-chief, osborn elliott in 1975 to encourage new yorkers to volunteer their time to help get their city through the fiscal crisis. Our mission is simple: to help new yorkers - especially those in low-income areas - come together and improve the quality of life in their neighborhoods. Citizens committee supports this work with micro-grants to resident-led community groups throughout the five boroughs of new york city, with a focus on low-to-moderate income and underserved neighborhoods. We supplement this financial support with free project planning assistance and consultation, skills-building workshops, and networking opportunities. Our strength at citizens committee is our unparalleled connection to active groups in every corner of the city. We know them and we also know that with just a little support, they do so much to enrich their communities. As new crises arise, these resident-led groups are able to respond quickly and flexibly to meet the unique needs of their neighborhoods. Our work is based on the idea that every community faces its own set of challenges, and has potential to tap into a unique set of resources. Therefore, rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, citizens committee supports groups working on a variety of innovative, local solutions to local issues. Through our resident empowerment model, everyday new yorkers receive a combination of financial support and technical assistance to create meaningful changes in their communities. Projects like transforming vacant lots into gardens, starting afterschool programs, caring for street trees, and launching composting initiatives bring diverse residents together to create greener, safer, healthier communities. 
