---
name: "Universal Peace Federation USA Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- arts
ein: 522289808
homepage: "www.upfusa.org"
address: |
 481 8th Avenue No 1224, \nNew York, NY 10001
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Promoting education, faith-based peace and community service initiatives affecting family and community renewal. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of the universal peace federation usa, inc. (upf usa) is to serve as a national grassroots leadership alliance promoting educational, faith-based, peace and community service initiatives affecting family and community renewal. Upf usa advances this mission by hosting conferences such as the american leadership conference series, award ceremonies such as national parents of the year and ambassadors for peace awards, and youth volunteer programs such as the one million acts of kindness campaign. A major on-going program of upf usa is the appointment of ambassadors for peace. Ambassadors for peace are a global network of leaders representing the religious, racial, and ethnic diversity of the human family, as well as all disciplines of human endeavor. One receives the ambassador for peace certificate, not fundamentally as an award, but rather as an appointment or a commission. The certificate does not so much honor the individual for past achievements, but rather installs or appoints a person to a position that carries new and on-going responsibilities aimed at ultimately creating a world of peace. Upf local chapters seek out these exemplary individuals and hold programs to appoint new ambassadors for peace. We had conferences in which we appointed new ambassadors for peace in various places in this year. As a part of upf usa's mission statement to support a renewal of the united nations having an interfaith council, upf usa celebrates most united nations holidays, including: the international day of peace, world interfaith harmony week, international day for women and international day of families. Upf usa chapters celebrate these holidays with a wide variety of programs, many featuring representatives of difference faiths speaking of shared values. Continued from previous year, upf usa had educational programs through the american leadership conferences presenting to the current and future ambassadors for peace the upf principles of peace, acknowledging god as the source of peace, strengthening marriage & family and public service. We held these american leadership conference in various chapters this year. Upf usa also co-sponsors conferences in different countries with our parent organization, universal peace federation international. In february 2015, upf usa sent our most distinguished guests attend the upf international leadership conference held in seoul, republic of korea which is focused on creating peace-centered relationships between nations, religions, and individuals. In august 2014, upf usa also sent distinguished representatives to the upf world summit in which among the participants there were heads of state and government, firs ladies, religious, political, academic, media, cultural and sports leaders. Upf usa programs promote partnerships among governments, religions and civil society, and seek to contribute to the establishment of a global culture of peace. By living for the sake of others, we can knit together our divided human family through service, repentance, forgiveness, respect and cooperation. Upf usa established the upf asian affairs office in march 2015. 
