---
name: "Center for Media & Peace Initiative"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- nature
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- arts
ein: 562511276
homepage: "www.cmpimedia.org"
address: |
 4 West 43rd Street 6th floor, \nNew York, NY 10036
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Communicating innovative, peaceful solutions to global challenges and promoting conflict-resolving journalism based on the highest ethical standards, pursuit of world peace and unification. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Communicating innovative, peaceful solutions to global challenges and promoting conflict-resolving journalism based on the highest ethical standards, pursuit of world peace and unification. September 11, 2015 center for media & peace initiatives and school of public affairs and administration, rutgers university, newark, new jersey held its annual conference on media and democratic governance. Dr. Marc holzer, dean school of public affairs and administration, rutgers university and dr. Uchenna ekwo, president, center for media & peace initiatives addressed the plenary session of the conference on media & democratic governance that was renamed gershowitz conference to immortalize the late dr. Michael gershowitz who was chair of the steering committee for the annual conference. The son of the late prof. Gershowitz, gabriel was in attendance. The theme of the 2015 conference was titled 'everyone a publisher: the challenge of promoting responsible journalism'. The conference keynote speaker was ambassador awalu kullane, somalia's ambassador to the united nations who used the forum to rail against the western media for what he phrased as ' negative narratives about somalia as a country perpetually in conflict'. Similarly, lampros kazis, press and communications office, permanent mission of greece to the united nations spoke on 'reflections on the greek debt crises: imperatives of citizen participation in decision making' and frowned over the misrepresentation in the media regarding the greek financial crises. The hon. Mildred c. Crump, president of the newark city municipal council also addressed the session together with dr. Sadia abbass, department of english, rutgers university whose presentation 'apocalypse and the 24 hour news cycle: what the young have to deal with today' generated so much controversy. In line with the theme of the conference participants were exposed to lots of misinformation perpetrated by the media in relation to democratic governance. A panel discussion on media and youth participation in public affairs at both international and domestic levels featured renowned millenials - a graduate students and young media practitioners from diverse organizations and colleges. The panelists include tariro mzezewa of thomson reuters, edmund janniger, president, rutgers council for public and international affairs, zoe gorman, program manager, center for media & peace initiatives, and joshua richey, managing editor, the observer. The report of the conference is published and circulated among news organizations and to all participants. It is also available in cmpi website and facebook page. 
