---
name: "THE HAMS HARM REDUCTION NETWORK INC"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- employment
- social
- addiction
- media
- greek
- technology
ein: 680657296
homepage: "hamsnetwork.org"
address: |
 PO Box 498, \nNew York, NY 10012
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The hams harm reduction network provides information and support for people who wish to reduce the harm in their lives cause by the use of alcohol or drugs. Hams neither encourages nor condemns alcohol use or alcohol intoxication. Hams recognizes recreational intoxication as a reality and seeks to reduce harms associated with it. Hams believes in the autonomy of the individual and supports each individual's choice of a goal vis a vis alcohol - whether the goal is safer drinking, reduced drinking, or quitting. Hams supports every positive change. The focus of hams is alcohol harm reduction, but users of any substance are welcome. Hams offers support via live and online groups and offers information via the web and printed page. Hams support groups are lay-led and free-of charge. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The hams harm reduction network provides information and support for people who wish to reduce the harm in their lives cause by the use of alcohol or drugs. Hams neither encourages nor condemns alcohol use or alcohol intoxication. Hams recognizes recreational intoxication as a reality and seeks to reduce harms associated with it. Hams believes in the autonomy of the individual and supports each individual's choice of a goal vis a vis alcohol - whether the goal is safer drinking, reduced drinking, or quitting. Hams supports every positive change. The focus of hams is alcohol harm reduction, but users of any substance are welcome. Hams offers support via live and online groups and offers information via the web and printed page. Hams support groups are lay-led and free-of charge. Hams information program: this program initiative provides individuals with information about how to reduce the harms in their lives caused by the use of alcohol or engagement in other addictive or high risk behaviors. The focus is on offering individuals evidence-based behavioral change strategies, techniques, and exercises which they can implement by themselves in a self-help fashion. This how-to self-change information is offered via the printed page and web page and may also be offered via other media such as video, audio, etc. This information is also offered to professionals who wish to work with individuals who are following an alcohol harm reduction plan. Information is offered to help individuals attain goals of safer drinking, reduced drinking, or quitting alcohol altogether. The success of this program is measured in terms of the number of books sold and number of hits on the web site. 
