---
name: "African Leadership Foundation"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- nature
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 830425133
homepage: "www.africanleadershipfoundation.org"
address: |
 PO Box 7408, \nNew York, NY 10150
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "African leadership foundation seeks to develop young leaders and entrepreneurs for the african continent. We primarily carry out this mission by supporting the establishment and growth of african leadership academy. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

African leadership foundation seeks to develop young leaders and entrepreneurs for the african continent. We primarily carry out this mission by supporting the establishment and growth of african leadership academy, a pan-african institution that seeks to transform africa by developing and connecting the next generation ofafrican leaders. African leadership foundations (alf) largest activities include financial support of african leadership academy (ala) and support of ala graduates in tertiary education outside of africa so as to enable them to maximize the opportunities available to them through this experience before returning to the continent. African leadership academy, is currently host to 180 young leaders from all over the african continent, selected through an incredibly competitive and rigorous admissions process. Students are provided a world-class and unique education encompassing the cambridge a-level curriculum integrated with the ala developed curriculum focusing on entrepreneurial leadership and african studies. Our students have applied to universities in africa, europe and the americas, have won over $65 million in university scholarship awards, and have been admitted and enrolled in such colleges as cornell, dartmouth, duke, harvard, notre dame, rochester, stanford, the university of north carolina, and yale, a testament to the preparation they receive while at ala. More than three quarters of all students currently attending the academy require full financial aid in order to enroll. Alfs financial support of ala enables ala to pursue a needs-blind admissions process and provide financial support to those students who require it. In 2014-2015, african leadership foundation together with chapters in geographic areas with a concentration of ala graduates, provided support to over 250 ala graduates attending university or college outside of africa. Alf matched almost 95% of students with local hosts, families and individuals close by and hence able to lend logistical and emotional support as ala graduates adjust to life in a new country and culture. Additionally alf hosts regional reunions and professional development opportunities. In 2014-2015 alf staff provided summer internship preparation support to more than 150 ala graduates based in the us as part of our careers and internship placement program. 
