---
name: "Center for Social Inclusion"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- gender
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 900686577
homepage: "www.centerforsocialinclusion.org"
address: |
 150 Broadway, \nNew York, NY 10038
state: "NY"
city: "New York"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Center for social inclusion works to identify and support policy strategies to transform structural inequity and exclusion into structural fairness and inclusion. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Center for social inclusion works to identify and support policy strategies to transform structural inequity and exclusion into structural fairness and inclusion. We work with community groups and national organizations to develop policy ideas, foster effective leadership, and develop communications tools for an opportunity-rich world in which we all will thrive no matter our race or ethnicity. The center for social inclusion (csi) identifies causes of racial inequity at a systems level and works with partners, through research and strategic convenings, to find solutions that promote equity and fairness. We develop policy ideas to transform structural racial inequity, support grassroots leaders and move public will to promote strategies for structural transformation through public education, sowing seeds of racial, gender and class equity for all. Our main program areas and some key 2014 accomplishments are: energy democracy: csi published energy investment districts, a concept paper on how communities and particularly communities of colorcan develop local renewable energy generation and energy efficiency programs that are accountable to the community and that produce healthier neighborhoods, reduce energy costs, create good jobs, build the local economy, and combat climate change. Csi participated, convened, and facilitated a series of national strategy sessions with grassroots leaders and environmental advocates to address policy strategies that will build towards energy democracy. Csi also convened and co-anchored the formation of the energy democracy working group in new york, a collaborative effort among grassroots and community-based organizations seeking racial and economic equity within the state of new yorks reforming the energy vision proceedings. Additionally, we successfully supported our first racial equity fellow in energy democracy to build a roadmap towards energy democracy in new york state. Transportation equity: csi worked in two areas: (1) identifying clear equity policy demands, including around performance measures and community indicators on transportation decision-making, developed to create greater transparency, accountability, and participatory processes at the federal, state, and local level, and (2) deep work across community and government to support transit equity campaigns and institutional practice in key localities and regions. As a member of the national transportation for america (t4a) coalition and as a steering committee member of the now independent equity caucus, csi incorporates a racially inclusive policy lens into federal transportation policy by identifying and supporting the transit priorities and concerns of communities of color, and by connecting them to national policy discussions. Csi also supports the caucus by convening the data and performance measures policy subcommittee. Locally, in 2014, csi led at least two strategy sessions in both detroit and seattle. Additionally, csi supported a report about transit service pre/post katrina and published a related op-ed in the new orleans time picayune. Broadband equity: csi continued to support the broader national movement toward broadband equity. While csi did not work directly in this area, we did support efforts to educate the federal communications commission on key issues (like the lifeline and net neutrality) when invited by key thought leaders and policy advocacy organizations in the field. While federal opportunity is bleak, csi continues to work on broadband in the opportunity-rich context of new york city. Csi published why broadband connectivity is crucial in tackling nycs racial inequality, an article in the local new york city, city limits magazine. Food equity: csi convened and facilitated two leadership institutes with a diverse set of grassroots and national food and agricultural leaders to identify policy entry points to creating a more racially and economically just, equitable, sustainable food system. Csi published building the case for racial equity in the food system, a seminal report addressing the historical context of how race impacts our food system and analyzing how local, state, and federal policies impact the health and wellbeing of families particularly families of color. Csi also successfully supported our first racial equity fellow in their work on building racial equity policy and strategies in the south. The fellows work led to the publication of shining light in dark place, raising up the work of women of color in the food system. Race communications: csi conducted cutting edge message testing and implicit bias research in 2014 and developed key relationships with partners that will galvanize our communications and research strategies. In 2014, csi contracted pacific market research to conduct a national empirical test of our newest messages. Csi analyzed and wrote up the data in a reportour second major publication on race communications: lets talk about race: how racially explicit messaging can advance equityto be released in early 2015. With the new results, csi has pushed to establish new and withstanding relationships with organizations such as pico national network, and the center on budget and policy priorities, began research design of field research with arkansas public policy panel, and has re-kindled our strategies in the south. Communications: in 2014, csi developed staff to do media across tv, print, radio and digital outlets. Through these efforts, csi generated hits on grist. Org, salon. Com, the guardian-us, the chronicle of philanthropy and several local and specialty outlets. Csi penned op-eds for yes! magazine, city limits, and the time-picayune. Csi also secured placement of president glenn harris on cnni's amanpour show. Across digital platforms, csi increased numbers on constant contact, facebook and twitter. Csi also led the launch of a new interactive mapenergy democracy for allas a resource for organizers and activists. 
