---
name: "Blue Heron Nature Preserve Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 020648202
homepage: "www.bhnp.org"
address: |
 4055 Roswell Road, \nAtlanta, GA 30342
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To create a personal experience with nature through a regional model of conservation, education, research, and connectivity. Bhnp fulfills its mission on approximately 30 acres of green space owned by the city of atlanta"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To create a personal experience with nature through a regional model of conservation, education, research, and connectivity. Bhnp fulfills its mission on approximately 30 acres of green space owned by the city of atlanta
  
  education during 2015, blue heron offered 75 programs and reached approximately 1300 people. The programs offered included our traditional second saturday safari series for all ages, presentations to garden clubs, programs for scout and school groups, and birthday parties. In addition, we expanded our summer camp and school break camp, added a new art after school program, began a homeschool program in partnership with atlanta audubon, and hosted a new urban ecology series focusing on conservation issues relevant to urban communities. Blue heron continues to see more interest from the public and learning communities in our education programs. 4 new schools participated in our programs during 2015, while we continued our relationship with 5 other area schools. Additionally, we received grant funding to continue our meadows for monarchs program with the sandy springs mission, an important part of our outreach to the local latino community. Scout programs continue to be booked on a regular basis, and several of our second saturday safari programs, including a january birds of prey program and an august firefly hike, reached capacity. We expanded our summer camp from 2 to 4 weeks, and added school break camps during the school year. We also began 3 new program offerings in the fall of 2015: 1. Growing up wild, a nature playgroup for young children and their caregivers. 2. At home outdoors: eco-adventures for homeschoolers, a drop-off program for children ages 4-12 offered in partnership with atlanta audubon. 3. Art and nature afterschool, an afterschool program for children grades k and up run by local naturalist and artist christy knight. The additional program offerings allow us to expand the reach of our mission throughout our community. Finally, we hired new contract educators to help us meet the additional demands of our expanding education programs. 
