---
name: "Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere (CARE USA) Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- gender
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- media
- military
- women
- greek
- advocacy
- poverty
- arts
ein: 131685039
homepage: "www.care.org"
address: |
 151 Ellis St NE, \nAtlanta, GA 303032440
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Care fights root causes of poverty in the world's poorest communities. World's poorest communities. We place focus on working alongside poor women because with proper resources women have power to help families. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Our mission is to serve individuals and families in the poorest communities in the world. Drawing strength from our global diversity, resources and experience, we promote innovative solutions and are advocates for global responsibility. We facilitate lasting change by: - strengthening capacity for self-help - providing economic opportunity - delivering relief in emergencies - influencing policy decisions at all levels - addressing discrimination in all its forms guided by the aspirations of local communities, we pursue our mission with both excellence and compassion because the people whom we serve deserve nothing less. 79 percent of cares program expenses in fiscal year 2015 were dedicated to lasting solutions to poverty. Cares work promotes womens and girls empowerment, maternal and child health, education, food security, access to clean water and strives to halt gender-based violence. Care places special emphasis on women and girls because our experience shows that their empowerment benefits entire families and communities. Care regularly evaluates and publishes the results of its work. For example, care's 2015 report, 'vows of poverty,' identifies 26 countries where more girls marry before age 18 than enroll in secondary school. Many of the underlying causes of child marriage including social norms that devalue women and girls apply across all the countries. Worldwide, about 39,000 girls are forced to marry each day. Meanwhile, 62 million girls are not in school, and half of them are adolescents. 'vows of poverty' also highlights some of the promising solutions to child marriage that are taking hold from bangladesh and nepal to ethiopia and malawi. Care's tipping point project, for example, partners with 90 villages in bangladesh and 16 areas of nepal to end child marriage through local soluations, learning and advocacy. Its aim is to reach a tipping point of sustainable change that will prevent and mitigate child marriage. Tipping point's focus reaches beyond formal policies - such as laws imposing a minimum age for marriage - and addresses social and cultural institutions driving gender discrimination and promoting child marriage. Some of its strategies include increasing girls awareness of gender and individual rights, while building girls confidence and life skills; challenging harmful social norms such as dowry expectations and cultural links between sexual purity and family honor; building support among parents for the voices, opinions and aspirations of adolescent girls; and collaborating with community groups, networks and organizations to promote advocacy and action for girls. Http://vowsofpoverty. Care. Org/
