---
name: "Rotarians For Fighting Aids Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- politics
- family
- nature
- employment
- social
- media
- military
- greek
- arts
ein: 200372797
homepage: "www.rffa.org"
address: |
 PO Box 12485, \nAtlanta, GA 30355
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To improve the lives of vulnerable children and families by mobilizing rotarians and partner organizations globally in the fight against hiv/aids and other diseases. Together we support the implementation of and provide sustainability for child-centered disease prevention programs in the developing world. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To improve the lives of vulnerable children and families
  
  the mission of rotarians for family health & aids prevention (rfha) is to save and improve the lives of vulnerable children and families who lack access to preventive health care and education. Our vision is to save and improve 5 million lives by 2020. We will enact our mission by mobilizing rotarians and partner organizations through africa and other parts of the developing world by providing multiple health screens and lifesaving immunizations that would not otherwise be provided or accessible. Rfha's signature program is rotary family health days, a unique public/private partnership program that has just completed its fourth year of service in 2014. This three day, annual program provides holistic, comprehensive, preventative health programs (both of infectious and non-communicable diseases) by way of leveraging and inspiring a massive force of humanitarian- driven volunteers through rotary clubs in multiple countries in africa (and a pilot program planned for india in 2016). Rfha serves as the convening organizer to mobilize not only the massive rotarian network, but also in-country government leaders, ministries of health, local medical service providers, world-wide public health organizations (such as the centers for disease control) and major media houses. The april 2014 partnership program leveraged 564 rotary clubs (comprised of 8,151 rotarians) who served free health care to 343,622 people at 402 sites across the countries of nigeria, ghana, uganda and south africa. Offerings include health screens for hiv, tb, malaria, diabetes, blood pressure and some cancers. Deworming, vitamin a supplements and immunizations for polio and measles were also provided. The concept is effective because it motivates the entire family to come, and they do so because of the broad range of services provided for everyone. This has become one of the largest health campaigns ever done in all the world of rotary (outside of rotary's polio campaign), and it has proven to be highly effective as well as easily scalable since rotary has membership in over 200 countries in the world. 
