---
name: "Intown Community School (ICS) Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- family
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 462327571
homepage: "www.intownschool.org"
address: |
 2058 Lavista Road, \nAtlanta, GA 30329
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Intown community school's mission is to excel at promoting a christian worldview, create a nurturing environment and achieve academic excellence. The school assists parents with providing a formal, biblically based education for children in kindergarten through 8th grade. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Intown community school's mission is to excel at promoting a christian worldview, create a nurturing environment and achieve academic excellence. The school assists parents with providing a formal, biblically based education for children in kindergarten through 8th grade. Intown community school has approximately 235 students in grades kindergarten through 8th grade and serves christian families with a desire to educate their children in a covenant school following the educational principles of british educator, charlotte mason. The school endeavors to assist parents in cultivating a christ-centered life of learning for young people by nurturing a community that aims for christ-centered education, engaging students in a biblical relationship with the world and integrating inspiration in a quest for godly wisdom. Monthly chapels and morning devotions are observed by all students and monthly parent meetings are held to pray together and foster the partnership between parent and teacher in training children. In grades 1 and 2, parents teach on fridays to support the principles of charlotte mason and in the other grades, parents are encouraged to assist the teachers and their children in the classroom and outside activities. Small class sizes allow for authentic relationships, hands on learning and discussion by all students. Group projects are completed quarterly with various culminating events. Curriculum in grades k-3 is organized around themes related to history, science and literature. In these grades, students participate in field trips that support the classroom themes. Curriculum in grades 4-8 is organized around historical time periods. Whenever possible, all of the content is linked to the period of history being studied. In all grades, teachers gifted in specialized areas (music, art, drama, foreign language and physical education) lead children in classes with concentrated exploration that increases as the student advances. In 6th through 8th grade, students have the option to participate in an athletic program with varied sports and after school student activities such as student council and chapel band. Also in the middle school grades, students travel overnight on extended field trips to rock eagle (6th), savannah (7th) and washington, d. C. (8th) to enrich their classroom learning. Intown community school is accredited in the 3rd through the 8th grade by the georgia accrediting commission and is federally recognized as an organization with 501(c)(3) status. 
