---
name: "HIVAIDS Empowerment Resource Center for Young Women Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- gender
- employment
- sports
- social
- women
- arts
ein: 562587827
homepage: "www.EmpwerYoungWomen.org"
address: |
 100 Edgewood Avenue, \nAtlanta, GA 30303
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Empowerment resource center (erc) provides hiv and std prevention education programs; hiv counseling, testing, referral services; and support services for individuals infected with hiv. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of empowerment resource center is to directly deliver health-related programs and services and generate
  
  under its health education program component, empowerment resource center offers evidence-based health education programs to members of its target population to prevent the transmission of diseases and infections and enhance community health literacy. Individual and group level interventions are facilitated by trained health educators in community settings. Workshops are offered routinely on-site and at collaborator facilities. Erc uses evidence-based behavioral interventions, such as 'be proud!be responsible!', 'healthy relationships', 'sihle', 'voices', and 'willow'. A total of 150 unduplicated participants attended these sessions. In addition, erc also offers supportive services through its peer-led, gender-specific social networks and monthly support groups for people living with hiv and aids (plwha). Erc's monthly support groups provide resources to assist plwha in improving their health literacy and developing skills in order to regain control of their lives. During 2014, erc offered monthly gender-specific support group meetings through its a dose of hope (women) and enrichment! responsibilities! choices! for men (e. R. C. 4 men) for 25 participants per gender-group each meeting. 
