---
name: "Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Atlanta Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 580566123
homepage: "www.BGCMA.org"
address: |
 1275 PEACHTREE ST NE, Suite 500\nAtlanta, GA 30309
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To save and change the lives of children by providing a safe, positive, and engaging environment and programs that prepare and inspire them to achieve great futures. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Boys & girls clubs of metro atlanta's (bgcma) mission is to save and change the lives of children and teens, especially those who need us most, by providing a safe, positive, and engaging environment and programs that prepare and inspire them to achieve great futures. For over 75 years, bgcma has been in the forefront of youth development, working with young people from disadvantaged economic, social and family circumstances. Bgcma enriches the lives of girls and boys that other youth agencies fail to reach. Bgcma is dedicated to ensuring that our community's young people, who are most in need of our help, have greater access to quality programs and services that help them succeed academically, live healthy lifestyles and become leaders. Since 1938, we have provided children with a positive place to go, results-oriented programming and a professional staff to guide them. Bgcma serves 3,500 young people daily through its clubs, summer sites and outreach programs. We operate 26 clubs in
  
  academic success: bgcma's academic programs enhance student performance and encourage high school graduation, college attendance and career exploration. Each club has a designated learning center and a computer lab. Learning centers are always open during club hours, and staff and volunteers are on hand to guide educational activities. Academic programs focus on early literacy, homework assistance and tutoring, integrated learning strategies, basic computer skills development, and advanced digital arts programming. 
