---
name: "The Westminster Schools Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- politics
- elderly
- nature
- sports
- social
- funding
- women
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 580566206
homepage: "www.westminster.net"
address: |
 1424 West Paces Ferry Road, \nAtlanta, GA 303272428
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Christian independent day school for boys and girls and girls which seeks to develop the whole person for college and for life through excellent education. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Christian independent day school for boys and girls which seeks to develop the whole person for college and for life through excellent education. Elementary & secondary education, general order: the school enrolled 1856 students in the year ended june 30, 2015 with 31% minority enrollment. Low class size encourages academic achievements reflected by students' accomplishments including 36 national merit semifinalists, 47 commended students, and 5 national achievement semifinalists. The most recent sat range for the middle 50% of the senior class was 1900-2200. The school's faculty, with 260 advanced degrees, represents an integral component of each student's education. Another significant component of their education is the school's 3 libraries which house 93,000 volumes. Westminster's students' interests extend beyond academics, and include athletic pursuits, artistic accomplishments, and community service. In the 2014-2015 school year, the school won 5 state championships in athletic competitions, with over 80% of students involved in athletic activities. The arts are historically very strong at westminster. Over 67% of students in the middle school and 27% of students in the upper school participate in the performing arts. The band, orchestra, and choral programs have a number of offerings in each division of the school, and consistently receive superior rating in competitions. Westminster is dedicated to the concept of community service and students have a strong tradition of involvement in their school and the wider community. Most students participate in voluntary community service. All divisions of the school participate in service opportunities throughout the school year. Through its endowment, westminster has been able to provide educational opportunities to students who would otherwise not be able to participate in private education. In the 2014-2015 school year, 14% of the students received need-based financial aid which made attendance at westminster possible. Food services provides 2,300 lunches each day for students, faculty and staff, plus a number of additional meals at events at the school. 
