---
name: "Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Atlanta Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- elderly
- employment
- social
- funding
- greek
- poverty
- arts
ein: 580942924
homepage: "ClearpointCCS.org"
address: |
 270 Peachtree Street NW Suite 1800, \nAtlanta, GA 30303
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "See schedule o for complete description. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Clearpoint will help individuals and families build long-term economic security by providing a full range of solutions focused financial education, counseling, coaching and advisory services to low-to-moderate income individuals and families. Credit counseling and financial education:during 2014, clearpoint, through its branch network of financial specialists, conducted nearly 37,000 credit counseling sessions. These no-cost counseling sessions were conducted in person, by telephone, and via the internet and are offered to any person in need of financial assistance. Hispanic centers for excellenceone of clearpoint's emerging markets and services is the work done by our hispanic centers for financial excellence (hcfe). Hcfe's provide relation-based, long-term financial literacy support in low-to-moderate income hispanic communities. Unlike most of clearpoint's traditional crisis-based counseling (foreclosure prevention, debt management programs, etc. ), this innovative program focuses on helping consumers accomplish proactive goal-based objectives. Key goals outlined by hcfe consumers include starting a business, buying a car, understanding the us banking system, building/establishing credit, saving for college, budgeting, establishing savings, eliminating debt and learning about retirement options. These newly opened grant funded centers, servicing the atlanta, ga and miami, fl markets, serviced a total of 837 families during 2014, with more expected in 2015. Bankruptcy counseling & education:clearpoint is authorized by the executive office of us trustees (eoust) to provide counseling and education, as required by congress, to those filing for personal bankruptcy protection. Clearpoint counselors evaluate each client's personal financial situation, educates the client on alternatives to bankruptcy and helps each client create a personal budget plan that meets his/her financial resources and needs. In pre-discharge bankruptcy education, courses are taught covering such topics as: setting realistic financial goals; how to read your credit report; obtaining or re-establishing credit; managing budgets and more. 27,654 individuals were served during 2014 for bankruptcy counseling and education. 
