---
name: "Atlanta Jewish Academy Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 581088687
homepage: "http://www.atljewishacademy.org/"
address: |
 5200 Northland Drive, \nAtlanta, GA 30342
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The atlanta jewish academy is a community day school that provides an exceptional education in both general and judaics studies in a unique environment that reflects the richness of jewish life and embraces the diversity of our students. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Atlanta jewish academy is a college preparatory, co-educational, preschool-12th grade, independent jewish day school, guided by modern orthodox values and principles. We embody the ideals of community, tradition, individual development and educational innovation. Atlanta jewish academy develops the whole person for college and life by fostering a love of torah, isreal and all jewish people through an excellent secular and judaic education within an inclusive, nurturing community. Our educational offerings include general studies, a rigorous curriculum which includes language arts, mathematics, science and social studies. Critical thinking, intellectual curiosity and a love for learning are major objectives. Our children are challenged to achieve their potential and then go further. The judaic teachings and practices of our school adhere to a traditional interpretation of laws and customs. We teach the classical jewish in their original languages, inspiring our students and grounding them in morals and ethics. The historical and religious importance of the state of israel is central to our teaching, programs and philosophy. Our students develop a strong connection to israel and its people. They understand and converse in the modern hebrew language. We believe that the ideals and democratic principles of the united states of america are fundamental to our lives as american jews. 
