---
name: "The Cathedral Preschool Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- nature
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- arts
ein: 581361768
homepage: "thecathedralpreschool.org"
address: |
 2744 Peachtree Rd, \nAtlanta, GA 30305
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To provide a program for preschool aged children that will foster the development of the whole child; emotionally, intellectually, socially, physically and spiritually by offering each student a well-balanced, age-appropriate curriculum that stimulates creativity, self-exploration, independence and healthy, happy relationships with others. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To provide a program for preschool aged children that will foster the development of the whole child; emotionally, intellectually, socially, physically and spiritually by offering each student a well-balanced, age-appropriate curriculum that stimulates creativity, self-exploration, independence and healthy, happy relationships with others. The cathedral preschool offers a christian, independent preschool curriculum for ages 2 through 5. During the 2014 fiscal year, the school serviced 203 students. The curriculum of the school has been developed and adapted to relate program goals to specific learning experiences. There is a foundation of core skills that is beneficial for all children to master if they are to experience continued success in school. The nature of the skills depends upon the age of the child and his or her present level of readiness. Two year old's begin by working on socialization and thematic units as children adjust to their school experience. Specific reading and mathematics curricula are offered at three years of age and continue to build to a full academic curriculum for kindergarten. The academic curriculum is enriched by art, music, chapel, library, science and indoor-outdoor physical play. 
