---
name: "Yellow Jacket Flying Club Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- nature
- employment
- social
- technology
- arts
ein: 581761019
homepage: "www.yjfc.org"
address: |
 1954 Airport Rd Suite 135, \nAtlanta, GA 30341
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To stimulate interest in aviation and aviation safety, through education, to the georgia tech and surrounding communities"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The organization owns and operates four aircraft that are used by members of the flying club at georgia tech (not members of corporation). These members rent the aircraft near actual cost. The majority of the organization's expenses are directly related to the operation of the aircraft. The organization also hosts events for the public to enhance interest and knowledge of the aviation industry. The organization operates four cessna 172 aircraft that are used to train and educate members on the techniques of aviation and safety in aviation. The organization hosts events to enhance their interest and knowledge of the aviation industry throughout the year. The organization participates in and hosts public events focused on aviation, aviation safety, and aviation-related activities. These activities include, but are not limited to local/regional air shows, such as wings over north georgia and the great georgia air show, national events such as eaa airventure in oshkosh, wi, hosting aviation-themed talks, speakers, and discussions on the georgia tech campus, airport 'good neighbor' events and eaa event participation, such as 'young eagle' flights. The yjfc also partners with the boy scouts of america to offer opportunities for scouts to earn their merit badges by taking a flight in an airplane. 
