---
name: "Georgia Tech Christian Campus Fellowship"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 581781442
homepage: "www.gtccf.org"
address: |
 767 Techwood Drive, \nAtlanta, GA 30313
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "The organization is a refuge that creates & nurtures a closer walk with the lord for students. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Through weekly bible studies, small group environments, and accountability groups students are encouraged and challenged to grow their faith in jesus christ. Students are also encouraged to participate in weekend retreats and mission trips where they are given the opportunity for focused learning and growing in their faith. Bible study-thursday night bible study includes dinner, worship, music, and prayer-ministering to approximately 200 persons per function. Cafe ccf-tuesday night event includes coffee, dessert, music, and bible study-ministering to approximately 110 persons per function. Retreats-georgia tech ccf promotes four retreat opportunities each year-ministering to approximately 130 persons per function. Monday free lunch-monday lunch includes trivia, chill time, lunch, and a non-threatening environment to invite new people to ccf. The free lunch ministers to approximately 150 persons per function. Small groups-georgia tech ccf promotes small groups for bible study and leadership development. Georgia tech ccf also provides outreach and service opportunities for the georgia tech students and other local college students. Some of the georgia tech ccf mission opportunities provided are as follows:fall break trip-ccf led a group of students to do tornado relief in and around mayflower, arkansas. Christmas break trip-a mission trip over new year's for students to build a clean water well system for villages in mexico without running water. Spring break trip-a mission trip partnering with casas por cristo out of el paso, texas for students to build houses for needy people in juarez, mexico. End of year trip-a trip to a remote village in ecuador for students to help with a local bridge construction project,as well as setting up a computer lab for the local village school, and other random community service projects. Globalscope-globalscope's strategy is built around the objective of drawing university students into saving meaningful relationships with god through jesus christ. 
