---
name: "Safe Kids of Georgia Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- military
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 581936575
homepage: "http://www.safekidsgeorgia.org/"
address: |
 1577 Northeast Expressway NE, \nAtlanta, GA 303292401
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "See schedule o"
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The mission of safe kids of georgia is for georgia's children 14 years of age and under to have a safe place to grow and play, free from accidental injuries. Note - program service expenses of 23,293 for coalition support do not include expenditures for services and facilities contributed to safe kids of georgia ('safe kids') by its partnering lead organization, children's healthcare of atlanta ('choa'). If such expenditures were included, coalition support expenses would be 275,435 (57. 9%) of total functional expenses of 475,632 as reported in safe kids' audited financial statements. Coalition support:safe kids had 29 coalitions at december 31, 2014 throughout the state of georgia helping to achieve its goal. Safe kids provides accounting support to most of the coalitions by maintaining a centralized bank account and separately tracking the receipts and expenses of the individual coalitions. Additionally, in order to address the need to develop sustainable resources, coupled with the need to collaborate and share best practices as well as educate on business practices, safe kids georgia held their annual leadership conference. This carefully planned and executed event is comprised of injury prevention experts (coalition coordinators and their constituents) who gather to attend sessions on topics such as sports safety, conducting community needs assessments, strategic planning, creating a work/life balance and securing funds for the future. The conference educated over 70 injury prevention stakeholders from law enforcement, fire departments, hospitals, businesses and non-profit agencies from around georgia. 
