---
name: "Communities in Schools of Georgia"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- elderly
- employment
- social
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 581912923
homepage: "www.cisga.org"
address: |
 260 Peachtree Street Suite 700, \nAtlanta, GA 30303
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "Communities in schools champions the connection of needed community resources with schools to help young people successfully learn, stay in school, and prepare for life. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

Communities in schools champions the connection of needed community resources with schools to help young people successfully learn, stay in school, and prepare for life. --- communities in schools is a network of nonprofit organizations focused on improving student and school success by providing needed support and services to students and schools. Our ultimate goal is to see that all students are successful in school and complete their education at least through high school. --- communities in schools believes that programs don't change kids, relationships do. Our philosophy is embedded in the cis five basics for kids, which focus on building a supportive environment for children and youth to help them thrive and be successful. The cis five basics were adopted by america's promise when it started in 1997. Support to local communities in schools affiliates in the ongoing development of 15 performance learning centers (plcs) throughout the state, which are small non-traditional schools for students who are not successful in the traditional school environment and who are at high risk of not graduating. Support included ongoing technical support to the schools and formal professional develop trainings for plc staff held throughout the year, including a training institute for plc, roundtable and webinar sessions. Support also included development of 3 race to the top performance learning centers as part of the georgia department of education's race to the top grant in the carrollton city, floyd county and richmond county school districts. During fy2015, communities in schools of georgia provided training and technical support to 3 local communities in schools affiliate programs that started the race to the top performance learning centers. Cis of georgia provided support to these affiliates in development of performance learning centers. During fy2015 the 3 race to the top plcs served 269 students in grades 9 through 12. Through our network empowerment initiative, 1 new plc opened in fy2015 in dodge county. During fy2015, 1,597 students attended the 15 performance learning centers in georgia. Eighty-three percent of the seniors in the program graduated during the school year. 
