---
name: "National Foundation for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Inc"
tags:
- education
- professional
- youth
- health
- politics
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- funding
- greek
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 582106707
homepage: "www.cdcfoundation.org"
address: |
 55 Park Place No 400, \nAtlanta, GA 30303
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "See schedule o the cdc foundation helps the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) do more, faster, by forging effective partnerships between cdc and corporations, foundations, organizations and individuals to fight threats to health and safety. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

The cdc foundation helps the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) do more, faster by forging effective partnerships between cdc and others to fight threats to health and safety. Global disaster responsesee schedule o for descriptionglobal disaster responsethe 201415 ebola epidemic in west africa is the deadliest the world has ever seen, and has taken the lives of more than 11,000 of the more than 28,000 people suspected of being infected with the disease. Equally extraordinary is the scale and duration of the response by the u. S. Centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) and partners. The size and scope of this epidemic illustrate the need for stronger, sustainable disease detection and prevention capacity worldwide. Cdc ramped up its ebola response in early july 2014, and overall the agency's staff completed more than 3,000 deployments to west africa (guinea, liberia and sierra leone), the united states and other affected countries. Cdc staff members provided logistics, staffing, communication, analytics, management and other support functions. Importantly, cdc staff set up systems to conduct and participated in surveillance, contact tracing, database management and health education. The cdc foundation assisted cdc by providing critical assistance and supplies through donations to the foundation's global disaster response fund, which has enabled cdc staff to respond quickly to changing circumstances and needs. These included overall incident management, treatment, burial support, health care system strengthening and communications. Significant needs identified by cdc include infection control, epidemiologic work, lab screenings, border health, health promotion/social mobilization/communications and a vaccine trial. For these efforts, cdc foundation support has funded more than 300 discrete projects in areas including the following:- equipment and staffing- airport screeners- emergency operations centers in guinea, liberia and sierra leone- vehicles - suvs, trucks and motorcycles- medical supplies- technology for connectivity and to speed the response (cell phones, laptops, tablets)- trainings- incountry staffing- communications (example: africa united soccer star campaign aimed at preventing thespread of ebola, weareafricaunited. Orgat the peak of the epidemic during the summer of 2014, cdc and officials from guinea, liberia and sierra leone identified the need for public health emergency management systems and emergency operations centers (eocs) to coordinate ebola response activities. To meet this need, the paul g. Allen family foundation rapidly and generously donated $12. 9 million to fund temporary and permanent eocs in all three countries and to develop national ebola call centers in sierra leone and guinea. Flexible funding built and equipped emergency operations center infrastructure and contributed to hiring and training emergency operation center staff in each of the three most affected countries. With cdc's lead, ehealth africa was also able to develop custom and integrated data management tools for surveillance and contact tracing, and provide furnishings, generators, equipment and supplies. Eoc dedication ceremonies in september 2015 brought together governments, partners and dignitaries to recognize the impact of the paul g. Allen family foundation's investment. Over the long term, these eocs will help to better establish and fortify systematic actions to prevent, detect and respond to outbreaks through strong emergency management systems, staff and protocols ready at a moment's notice; surveillance data collection and analysis to guide prevention and response activities; access to laboratory testing to identify outbreaks early on; and communication systems to disseminate important health messages. 
