---
name: "Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Inc"
tags:
- charitable
- education
- professional
- youth
- religious
- health
- family
- employment
- sports
- social
- addiction
- funding
- media
- military
- greek
- advocacy
- technology
- poverty
- arts
ein: 582367819
homepage: "www.choa.org"
address: |
 1584 Tullie Circle, \nAtlanta, GA 30329
state: "GA"
city: "Atlanta"
lng: 
lat: 
description: "To make kids better today and healthier tomorrow. "
is_501c3: X
---

## Long description

To make kids better today and healthier tomorrow. Children's healthcare of atlanta, inc. (children's) serves as the corporate parent of, and is an integral part of, the exempt healthcare system whose program service accomplishments are described below. Children's serves metro atlanta, the entire state of georgia and the united states. Children's is the largest pediatric provider in the state caring for children from all 159 georgia counties in 2014. Children's, one of the leading pediatric healthcare systems in the country, is a not-for-profit organization that benefits from the generous philanthropic and volunteer support of our community. Operating three hospitals (egleston, hughes spalding and scottish rite) and 25 neighborhood locations (including marcus autism center and five urgent care centers) with more than 875,000 patient visits annually, children's is recognized for excellence in cancer, cardiac and orthopaedics and offers access to more than 60 pediatric specialties. Children's is ranked one of the top pediatric hospitals nationwide by u. S. News & world report and also has been named one of the '100 best companies to work for' by fortune magazine. The mission vision, values and employee promise of children's were created through an in-depth process involving employees, physicians, volunteers and board members. In 2014, the three hospitals operated by children's healthcare of atlanta, inc. Provided 575 licensed beds and managed 877,782 patient visits, 365,526 unique patients, 25,807 hospital admissions, 147,677 inpatient days, 845,845 outpatient visits, 38,367 surgical procedures (inpatient and outpatient), 221,952 emergency department visits, 134,845 urgent care center visits and 46,553 primary care visits. Children's also managed 100,092 calls from parents across georgia to the children's nurse advice line. Children's is also the largest medicaid provider in the state of georgia, serving nearly 9 out of 10 pediatric inpatient medicaid cases in atlanta and nearly 6 out of 10 cases statewide. Children's is committed to providing medically needed healthcare to the children of georgia. Statewide, 40% of georgia's children are enrolled in medicaid or peachcare and 8% are uninsured. In 2014, children's provided more than $69 million of care for which we do not get paid. In addition, children's invests in pediatric research, teaching and child wellness and preventive care initiatives, for which we also do not get paid. The total community benefit provided by children's in 2014 was $154. 4 million. Children's serves as the pediatric physician teaching site for emory university school of medicine and morehouse school of medicine. Children's takes the lead in training the pediatricians of tomorrow and increased its training to 91 residents and 88 fellows in 2014. New physicians are encouraged to participate in our fellowship programs, which are available in a variety of specialties. Children's also trains other pediatric healthcare professionals, including nurses, emergency medical technicians, paramedics and psychosocial experts. Children's offers a wide variety of training opportunities to other professionals who work with children, including programs for law enforcement agencies, school nurses, coaches and teachers. Children's believes that today's medical discoveries could save the life of a child tomorrow. Research is a cornerstone of the children's healthcare of atlanta mission. We are committed to advancements in pediatric medicine and finding answers to perplexing medical conditions, working with partners such as emory university school of medicine, georgia institute of technology and morehouse school of medicine. In 2014, children's, emory and georgia tech led a groundbreaking advance in treating previously inoperable brain tumors. With support from the children's neurosciences program, the national cancer institute (nci), ian's friends foundation and the georgia research alliance, researchers discovered a new technique that transports cancer cells using nanotechnology to a new, operable location on the surface of the skull. Among other things, we are working on treatments for autism, brain tumors, cardiac problems and sickle cell disease; growing bone; and using cell phones to enhance memory and organization following traumatic brain injury. Our key priority research centers are the aflac cancer and blood disorders center, atlantic pediatric device consortium, center for childhood infections and vaccines, center for clinical and translational research, center for cystic fibrosis and airways disease research, center for drug discovery, center for pediatric innovation, center for pediatric nanomedicine center for transforming pediatric healthcare delivery, center for transplantation and immune-mediated disorders, children's center for neurosciences research, children's heart research and outcomes center, clinical outcomes research & public health,and marcus autism center. Our stephanie v. Blank center for safe and healthy children works with law enforcement, the division of family and children services (dfcs) and child advocacy agencies to identify, treat and prevent child abuse and neglect. In 2014, through the center, we trained more than 8,500 professionals about how to recognize, report and prevent child abuse. Those trained included medical personnel, law enforcement, child advocates, school staff, social workers and mental health practitioners. In 2014 we continued our children's strong4life childhood obesity movement to combat the childhood obesity epidemic in georgia. Since inception we have trained more than 2,800 healthcare providers on patient-centered counseling techniques and worked with more than 500 schools. Children's serves as the lead agency for safe kids georgia, a statewide network for preventing unintentional injuries among children. These types of injuries are the no. 1 cause of death for children from birth to age 14. In 2014, safe kids georgia-through its 29 local coalitions across 62 counties-provided education to more than 230,000 children, caregivers and professionals. Safe kids georgia distributed more than 22,000 safety devices to residents throughout the state, including car and booster seats, bike helmets, smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, gun locks and personal flotation devices. Through the conduct of these activities, children's healthcare of atlanta, inc. Seeks to make kids better today and healthier tomorrow. 
